<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Battle Kid 2: Mountain of Torment</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Battle Kid 2: Mountain of Torment</h1><div class="article">
<p>This game is the sequel to <a href="Battle_Kid__Fortress_of_Peril.xhtml" title="Battle Kid: Fortress of Peril">Battle Kid: Fortress of Peril</a>.  Like before, it is a platforming game, inspired from <a class="external text" href="http://kayin.pyoko.org/iwbtg/" rel="nofollow">I Wanna be the Guy</a>.  It is done in a Metroidvania-style.  Rather than having several levels, it is one large area that one can freely explore.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Overview">Overview</span></h2>
<ul><li>Project owner: Sivak</li>
<li>Developer: Sivak</li>
<li>Compiler : NESASM</li>
<li>Sound driver: Drag NSF 2.0</li>
<li>Soundtrack by: Sivak</li>
<li>Started on: July, 2010</li>
<li>Release date: December 15, 2012</li>
<li>Cart made: Yes</li>
<li>Mapper: Shipped on the Sealie <a href="UNROM_512.xhtml" title="UNROM 512">UNROM 512</a> board (<a class="mw-redirect" href="UNROM_512.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 030">mapper 30</a>) but uses only the subset compatible with oversize <a class="mw-redirect" href="UxROM.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 002">mapper 2</a></li>
<li>PRG Memory: 512 KB</li>
<li>CHR Memory: 0 KB</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Gameplay">Gameplay</span></h2>
<p>Gameplay is similar to the <a href="Battle_Kid__Fortress_of_Peril.xhtml" title="Battle Kid: Fortress of Peril">first game</a> in that one controls Timmy and must navigate through the various sectors of the mountain base, seeking out items and bosses.
</p><p>Unlike the first game, there are more types of blocks such as conveyor belts, ice, and sludge.  Sludge is a liquid that makes one move at half speed while inside of it.
</p><p>In this game, the upgrades include: Wall Grip, Feather Fall, X-Sludge, and Double Jump.  Wall grip allows Timmy to cling onto special walls.  Feather Fall lowers falling speed.  X-Sludge makes sludge act like water.  Double jump allows a second jump in the air.  High Jump is phased out and you already jump at that height from the start.  The Infinite Oxygen item was also removed and Timmy can simply be underwater indefinitely.
</p><p>There will be varying levels of difficulty like before.  Passwords and other bonuses will also be included.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="External_links">External links</span></h2>
<ul><li> <a class="external text" href="http://sivak.nintendoage.com/" rel="nofollow">Sivak Games</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.retrousb.com/product_info.php?cPath=30&amp;products_id=121" rel="nofollow">Purchase page</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zaK-RjiZedA" rel="nofollow">Official trailer</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PUb_P102SZ0" rel="nofollow">Demo video #6 - Showcases revised intro stage and intro scenes</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-AaC7-SjOb8" rel="nofollow">Demo video #5 - Showcases new features and artwork</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CBxmswDIiLk" rel="nofollow">Demo video #4 - Showcases intro stage and cutscenes</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tl9CsEpZ9Xw" rel="nofollow">Demo video #3 - Showcases new features and another area</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HNrsYjvLp88" rel="nofollow">Demo video #2 - Showcases 3 areas</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dlfqN92v7Xo" rel="nofollow">Demo video #1 - Old first area demo</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bBz4AX1tmsM" rel="nofollow">General game engine demo video</a></li></ul>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.027 seconds
Real time usage: 0.028 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 11/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 16/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:501-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160405130031 and revision id 8507
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_Homebrew_games.xhtml">Homebrew games</a>, <a href="Category_Games_released_in_2012.xhtml">Games released in 2012</a>, <a href="Category_Games_by_Sivak.xhtml">Games by Sivak</a></p></div></body></html>