<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Cartridge and mappers' history</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Cartridge and mappers' history</h1><div class="article">
<dl><dt>1983 July 15th</dt>
<dd>The Nintendo Family Computer (Famicom) is released in Japan. The 3 launch games are : &quot;Donkey Kong&quot;, &quot;Donkey Kong Jr.&quot; and &quot;Popeye&quot;. During the first year, only Nintendo released games for the system. All of them had 16 KiB PRG and 8 KiB CHR.</dd>
<dt>1984 June 21th</dt>
<dd>Family BASIC is released. It is the first special cart Nintendo made for the system: instead of being a game it allows the user to program the system using the BASIC programming language. It's also the first cart that uses 32 KiB of PRG. Additionally it provides 2 KiB of battery-backed PRG RAM.  It is the first cart (for a long while) to use PRG RAM, let alone battery backup.</dd>
<dt>1984 July 28th/31st</dt>
<dd>Hudson's &quot;Nuts &amp; Milk&quot; and &quot;Lode Runner&quot; appear to be the first third party games released on the Famicom. The cartridges were manufactured by Nintendo though.</dd>
<dt>1984 November 2nd/8th</dt>
<dd>Namco's &quot;Pac Man&quot; and &quot;Xevious&quot; appear to be the first releases for the Famicom that were entirely manufactured by a third party. &quot;Xevious&quot; appears to be the first 32 KiB PRG game for the system (as Family BASIC isn't a game). Because of the lack of any lockout chip, Namco and many other companies (Bandai, Irem, Jaleco, Konami, Sunsoft, Taito) will follow this trend and make their own cartridges instead of having Nintendo make them for them.</dd>
<dt>1985 June 21st</dt>
<dd>Konami's &quot;Hyper Olympic Gentaiban!&quot; is the first game to use hardware other than ROMs (not counting Family BASIC). The cartridge was made by Konami and uses <a href="INES_Mapper_087.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 087">some circuitry</a> to allow 16 KB of CHR ROM, switching between two 8 KiB banks. Mappers were born.</dd>
<dt>1985 September 13th</dt>
<dd>Nintendo's &quot;Super Mario Bros.&quot; is released in Japan. It is one of the first (if not the first) Famicom games that is not merely a port of another arcade or computer game. This will be a major factor in the console's success.</dd>
<dt>1985 September 27th</dt>
<dd>Jaleco released &quot;City Connection&quot;, which uses the same circuit as Konami's above-mentioned CHR banking.</dd>
<dt>1985 October 18th</dt>
<dd>The Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) is released in the United States. The launch games are : &quot;10-Yard Fight&quot;, &quot;Baseball&quot;, &quot;Clu Clu Land&quot;, &quot;Donkey Kong Jr. Math&quot;, &quot;Duck Hunt&quot;, &quot;Excitebike&quot;, &quot;Golf&quot;, &quot;Gyromite&quot;, &quot;Hogan's Alley&quot;, &quot;Ice Climber&quot;, &quot;Kung Fu&quot;, &quot;Mach Rider&quot;, &quot;Pinball&quot;, &quot;Stack-Up&quot;, &quot;Super Mario Bros.&quot;, &quot;Tennis&quot;, &quot;Wild Gunman&quot;, and &quot;Wrecking Crew&quot;. Some of these contained 60-pin Famicom cartridge PCBs connected to an internal Famicom-to-NES adapter, while others used 72-pin cartridge PCBs designed specifically for the NES. This list already includes some third party games but this time the lockout chip inside the NES prevented them from building their own cartridges.</dd>
<dt>1986 February 21st</dt>
<dd>Nintendo released the Famicom Disk System (FDS) accessory, which vastly improved the capabilities of the console (as almost no games were yet using mappers). One disk can hold 128 KB of data (64KB per side), and was cheaper to produce. Additionally it provided extra sound and the disks could hold save data.</dd>
<dt>1986 April</dt>
<dd>Bandai, Konami and Nintendo appear to start producing <a href="CNROM.xhtml" title="CNROM">CNROM</a> games almost simultaneously. It's an improvement over Konami's circuit that uses only one chip instead of two.</dd>
<dt>1986 April 17th</dt>
<dd>Sunsoft's &quot;Atlantis no Nazo&quot; appears to be the first cartridge that uses a <a href="INES_Mapper_184.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 184">dedicated mapper chip</a> (as opposed to 74 series logic chips). Other companies follow this trend promptly.</dd>
<dt>1986 June 6th</dt>
<dd>Nintendo's &quot;Gumshoe&quot; (released in USA) is the first <a class="mw-redirect" href="GxROM.xhtml" title="GNROM">GNROM</a> game. It's the first game to bank PRG ROM, have 128 KiB of PRG ROM, and to support banking both PRG and CHR.</dd>
<dt>1986 June 13th</dt>
<dd>Capcom's &quot;Maikamura&quot; (a.k.a. &quot;Ghosts 'n' Goblins&quot;) appears to be the first <a class="mw-redirect" href="UxROM.xhtml" title="UNROM">UNROM</a> game. After the FDS, UNROM is the first game cartridge to use CHR RAM.</dd>
<dt>1986 June 20th</dt>
<dd>Namco's &quot;Super Chinese&quot; appears to be the first game that uses a complex <a href="Category_ASIC_mappers.xhtml" title="Category:ASIC mappers">ASIC</a> mapper. <a href="INES_Mapper_206.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 206">Namco's 108</a> is the MMC3's predecessor.</dd>
<dt>1986 July 30th</dt>
<dd>Konami's <a href="VRC1.xhtml" title="VRC1">VRC1</a> (the second ASIC mapper) is first used in &quot;Ganbare Goemon! Karakuri Douchuu&quot;. After the FDS, the VRC1 is the first mapper that supports changing the nametable layout (&quot;mirroring&quot;) at runtime.</dd>
<dt>1986 September 1st</dt>
<dd>The NES is released in PAL-B regions.</dd>
<dt>1986 December 15th</dt>
<dd>Irem's &quot;Mashou&quot; (a.k.a. &quot;Deadly Towers&quot;) is the first game published to use a <a href="BNROM.xhtml" title="BNROM">BNROM</a> board.</dd>
<dt>1987 April 14th</dt>
<dd>Seta's &quot;Morita Shougi&quot; appears to be the first game to use the Nintendo <a href="MMC1.xhtml" title="MMC1">MMC1</a> mapper. It's also the first game cartridge with 8 KiB of PRG RAM and battery backup.</dd>
<dt>1987 May 15th</dt>
<dd>The NES is released in PAL-A regions.</dd>
<dt>1987 June 30th</dt>
<dd>Taito's <a href="INES_Mapper_080.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 080">X1-005</a> is first used in &quot;Mirai Shinwa Jarvas&quot;. The X1-005 is the first mapper to provide a small amount of extra RAM on-die, which was almost always used for saving.</dd>
<dt>1987 July 7th</dt>
<dd>Konami's <a href="VRC2.xhtml" title="VRC2">VRC2</a> is first used in &quot;Getsufuu Maden&quot;. The VRC2 is the first mapper to support eight independent CHR banks.</dd>
<dt>1987 September 25th</dt>
<dd>Konami's <a href="VRC3.xhtml" title="VRC3">VRC3</a> is first and only used in &quot;Salamander&quot;. After the FDS, the VRC3 is the first mapper that can generate IRQs.</dd>
<dt>1987 September</dt>
<dd>Nintendo's <a href="MMC2.xhtml" title="MMC2">MMC2</a> is used in &quot;Mike Tyson's Punch-out!!&quot;.</dd>
<dt>1987 December</dt>
<dd>Rare's &quot;Wizards &amp; Warriors&quot; is the first game published to use an <a href="AxROM.xhtml" title="AxROM">ANROM</a> board.</dd>
<dt>1987 December 4th</dt>
<dd>Namco's &quot;Star Wars&quot; is the first game published to use their <a href="Namco_163.xhtml" title="Namco 163">129</a> mapper IC, which supported ROM nametables and expansion audio. (However, this game used neither)</dd>
<dt>1988 March 18th</dt>
<dd>Irem released &quot;Napoleon Senki&quot;, the first game to have 4-screen mirroring, and to contain both CHR RAM and CHR ROM.</dd>
<dt>1988 August 12th</dt>
<dd>Namco's &quot;Final Lap&quot; is the first game to re-use the audio loop lines intended for the FDS to add <a href="Namco_163_audio.xhtml" title="Namco 163 audio">expansion audio</a>.</dd>
<dt>1988 September 27th</dt>
<dd>Seta's &quot;8-Eyes&quot; appears to be the first game to use the Nintendo <a href="MMC3.xhtml" title="MMC3">MMC3</a> mapper.</dd>
<dt>1990 April</dt>
<dd>Rare's &quot;<a href="INES_Mapper_119.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 119">Pin•Bot</a>&quot; is the first game that can bankswitch CHR-RAM, as well as both CHR-RAM and CHR-ROM independently.</dd>
<dt>1990 September</dt>
<dd>Hal Laboratory's &quot;Uchuu Keibitai SDF&quot; and Konami's &quot;Castlevania 3&quot; (released almost simultaneously) appear to be the first games to use the Nintendo <a href="MMC5.xhtml" title="MMC5">MMC5</a> mapper.</dd>
<dt>1991 August 10th</dt>
<dd>Bandai's &quot;<a href="INES_Mapper_016.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 016">Dragon Ball Z II: Gekishin Freeza!!</a>&quot; is the first game to save games in EEPROM.</dd>
<dt>1991 August 30th</dt>
<dd>HAL Labratory released &quot;Metal Slader Glory&quot;, the largest licensed game with 512KB of PRG ROM and CHR ROM.</dd>
<dt>1994 June 24th</dt>
<dd>Hudson Soft's &quot;Takahasi Meijin no Boukenjima (Adventure Islands) IV&quot; is the last licensed game released for the Famicom.</dd>
<dt>1994 December</dt>
<dd>Nintendo's &quot;Wario's Woods&quot; is the last licensed game for the NES in USA.</dd>
<dt>2003 September 25th</dt>
<dd>Nintendo discontinued all manufacturing and support for the Famicom</dd></dl>
<p><br/>
<b>Note:</b> this list is not a citeable source for release dates; all dates either come from NEScartDB or Wikipedia.
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.040 seconds
Real time usage: 0.042 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 4/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 1/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:517-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224847 and revision id 11317
 -->
</div></body></html>