<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Help:Signatures</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Help:Signatures</h1><div class="article">
<table style="color:#000000; border:solid 1px #A8A8A8; padding:0.5em; margin:0.5em 0; background-color:#FFFFFF;font-size:95%; vertical-align:middle;">
<tr>
<td style="padding:1em;width: 40px">
</td>
<td><b>Important note:</b> When you edit this page, you agree to release your contribution into the <a class="mw-redirect" href="Public_domain.xhtml" title="En:Public domain">public domain</a>. If you don't want this or can't do this because of license restrictions, please don't edit. This page is one of the <s>Public Domain Help Pages</s>, which can be freely copied into fresh wiki installations and/or distributed with MediaWiki software.}}
</td>
<td style="padding:1em;width: 40px">
</td></tr></table>
<p>Users can easily <b>sign</b> their posts at the end of a comment. Signing is normally done on <a href="Help_Talk_pages.xhtml" title="Help:Talk pages">talk pages</a> only, not on conjointly written articles.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Default_signature_options">Default signature options</span></h2>
<p>There are three default options. Four tildes are standard (full signature). Typing three tildes results in a username-only signature (without timestamp). Typing five tildes results in a pure timestamp (without username).
</p>
<table class="wikitable">
<tr>
<th> Function
</th>
<th> Wiki markup
</th>
<th> Resulting code
</th>
<th> Resulting display
</th></tr>
<tr>
<td> Signature plus timestamp
</td>
<td> <pre>~~~~</pre>
</td>
<td>
<p><code>[[User:Username|Username]] 12:34, 1 February 2008 (UTC)</code>
</p>
</td>
<td> <s>Username</s> 12:34, 1 February 2008 (UTC)
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td> Signature alone
</td>
<td> <pre>~~~</pre>
</td>
<td>
<p><code>[[User:Username|Username]] </code>
</p>
</td>
<td> <s>Username</s>
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td> Timestamp alone
</td>
<td> <pre>~~~~~</pre>
</td>
<td> <code>12:34, 1 February 2008 (UTC)</code>
</td>
<td> 12:34, 1 February 2008 (UTC)
</td></tr></table>
<p>If you edit without logging in, your IP address will take the place of a username. Usernames and IP addresses are also stored in <s>page histories</s> as a record of who wrote what, so others can always verify signatures.
</p><p>The common format to type a signature – two hyphens (or a dash) followed by four tildes (<code>-- <b>~~~~</b></code>) – is derived from the computer network Usenet, where two hyphens mark a signature block. The actual signature string, the tildes, automatically get substituted with username (linked to the appropriate user page) and timestamp (time/date), when you save a signed edit. This helps other users to follow the chronological order of discussions, and to identify the author of a particular comment. 
</p><p>If you don't find the tilde on your keyboard, you can use the signature button <s>signature button</s> of the default <s>edit toolbar</s> as a typing aid.
</p><p>Signatures do not work in edit summaries (they do not translate from ~~~~ there).
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Customized_signatures">Customized signatures</span></h2>
<p>Registered users can customize their signature (the part between the two hyphens and the timestamp) by changing the field &quot;New signature:&quot; in their <s>preferences</s>. By default, anything you enter there will be wrapped with <code>[[ ]]</code>. To use a special linking (without this automatic link), you have to enable “Raw signatures.” Then you can add Wiki markup and also HTML (as far as allowed on the wiki) as you like, but the maximum length is 255 characters. Please note that striking signatures are often disliked by other users.
</p><p>If you enable “Raw signatures” but don't add any customized signature string, you'll sign with your unlinked username.
</p><p>The most common customizations are the following two:
</p>
<table class="wikitable">
<tr>
<th> Purpose
</th>
<th> Raw signature
</th>
<th> Resulting signature display
</th></tr>
<tr>
<td> Adapting the displayed username
</td>
<td>
<p><code>[[User:Username|User Name]]</code>
</p>
</td>
<td> -- <s>User Name</s> 12:34, 1 February 2008 (UTC)
</td></tr>
<tr>
<td> Adding a talk page link
</td>
<td>
<p><code>[[User:Username|Username]] ([[User talk:Username|talk]])</code>
</p>
</td>
<td> -- <s>Username</s> (<s>talk</s>) 12:34, 1 February 2008 (UTC)
</td></tr></table>
<p>. . . . . . . . . .
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.083 seconds
Real time usage: 0.089 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 108/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 352/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 709/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:308-1!*!0!!en!5!* and timestamp 20160208230150 and revision id 823
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_Help.xhtml">Help</a>, <a href="Category_Pages_with_broken_file_links.xhtml">Pages with broken file links</a></p></div></body></html>