<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Help:Editing pages</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Help:Editing pages</h1><div class="article">
<p>It's very easy to edit the contents of a wiki. It only takes a few clicks.
</p>
<ol><li> Click the “<b>Edit</b>” <s>page tab</s> at the top of the page.</li>
<li> Make changes to the text.</li>
<li> Click the “<b>Save page</b>” button.</li></ol>
<p>Simple as that!
</p>
<div class="toc" id="toc"><div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Editing_rules.2C_editing_conventions.2C_and_formatting"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Editing rules, editing conventions, and formatting</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Edit_Summary"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Edit Summary</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Preview"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Preview</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-4"><a href="#Other_types_of_editing"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Other types of editing</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-5"><a href="#Discussion"><span class="tocnumber">5</span> <span class="toctext">Discussion</span></a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Editing_rules.2C_editing_conventions.2C_and_formatting">Editing rules, editing conventions, and formatting</span></h2>
<p>The number one rule of wiki editing, is to <i>be bold</i>. Dive in and make changes. Other people can correct mistakes later, so have confidence, and give it a try! There can be all kinds of editing conventions, rules, and philosophy governing the editing of wiki pages, but the &quot;be bold&quot; rule overrides these!
</p><p>In general try to write clearly and concisely and make sure you are always aiming to do something which improves the wiki contents. An edit might be to contribute whole paragraphs or pages full of information, or it could be as simple as fixing a typo or spelling mistake.
</p><p>When you need to use some type of formatting e.g. new headings or bold text, you do this using wiki syntax. See <a href="Help_Formatting.xhtml" title="Help:Formatting">Help:Formatting</a> for some of the common types of formatting used.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Edit_Summary">Edit Summary</span></h2>
<p>Before you save a change, you can enter a short note in the <b>Summary:</b> box describing your changes. Don't worry too much about this, or spend too much time thinking about it, but try to give a little description of what you just changed e.g. &quot;<i>fixed typo</i>&quot; or &quot;<i>added more information about sunflowers</i>&quot;.
</p><p>The summary gets stored alongside your edit, and allows people to <s>track changes</s> in the wiki more effectively.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Preview">Preview</span></h2>
<p>It's a good idea to use the “<b>Preview</b>” button to see what your change will look like, before you save it. This is also related to <s>tracking changes</s> because every time you save, this is displayed to others as a separate change. This isn't something to worry about too much, but it's good to get into the habit of eliminating mistakes in your own work, by using a preview before saving, rather than saving several minor corrections afterwards. 
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Other_types_of_editing">Other types of editing</span></h2>
<p>With wiki edits you can start a new page, move (or rename) a page, or even delete a page:
</p>
<ul><li> <a href="Help_Starting_a_new_page.xhtml" title="Help:Starting a new page">Help:Starting a new page</a></li>
<li> <s>Help:Moving a page</s></li>
<li> <s>Help:Deleting a page</s></li></ul>
<p>Remember you should always aim to improve the overall contents of the wiki with your edits.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Discussion">Discussion</span></h2>
<p>Every article has its own &quot;talk page&quot; where you can ask questions, make suggestions, or discuss corrections. See <a href="Help_Talk_pages.xhtml" title="Help:Talk pages">Help:Talk pages</a>
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.036 seconds
Real time usage: 0.039 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 35/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 64/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 28/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:293-1!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20160208230142 and revision id 793
 -->
</div></body></html>