<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Help:User page</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Help:User page</h1><div class="article">
<table style="color:#000000; border:solid 1px #A8A8A8; padding:0.5em; margin:0.5em 0; background-color:#FFFFFF;font-size:95%; vertical-align:middle;">
<tr>
<td style="padding:1em;width: 40px">
</td>
<td><b>Important note:</b> When you edit this page, you agree to release your contribution into the <a class="mw-redirect" href="Public_domain.xhtml" title="En:Public domain">public domain</a>. If you don't want this or can't do this because of license restrictions, please don't edit. This page is one of the <s>Public Domain Help Pages</s>, which can be freely copied into fresh wiki installations and/or distributed with MediaWiki software.}}
</td>
<td style="padding:1em;width: 40px">
</td></tr></table>
<p>A <b>user page</b> is a page about a wiki user; someone who registered on the wiki, and is (most probably) a contributor.
</p><p>If you have registered, you can create your own user page. Your user page is linked in the top right. More importantly, others will see links to your user page from various places which assist wiki collaboration. This includes the “Recent changes” and “page history” displays (See <s>Help:Tracking changes</s>). You can also link to your user page within text of a wiki page, which is mainly useful on <a href="Help_Talk_pages.xhtml" title="Help:Talk pages">talk pages</a> when you sign your name.
</p>
<div class="toc" id="toc"><div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#What_to_put_on_your_user_page"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">What to put on your user page</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#User_scratchpad_.2F_development_area"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">User scratchpad / development area</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Other_people.27s_user_pages"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Other people's user pages</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#User_Contributions"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">User Contributions</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Editing_someone_else.27s_page"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Editing someone else's page</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-6"><a href="#User_talk_pages"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">User talk pages</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="What_to_put_on_your_user_page">What to put on your user page</span></h2>
<p>User pages are just as flexible as any other wiki page, and it's a page all about you, so generally people will leave you to freely write your user page in whatever format you like. It's a feature to help other people know who you are, and to bring the online community closer together. Think of it as a “profile” page. You might like to mention where you are from and what your job is. You can also state what your main areas of interest are in relation to the topic of the wiki, and describe contributions you have made or areas where you are interested in contributing.
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="User_scratchpad_.2F_development_area">User scratchpad / development area</span></h3>
<p>You can use your user page as a scratchpad. An area for developing ideas without cluttering the main namespace (see <s>Help:Namespaces</s>). If subpages are enabled (see <s>Help:Subpages</s>), you may find them useful for creating sub pages under your user page. However you should avoid expending too much effort within your own area of the wiki. Be bold! Edit the main wiki articles! If your wiki has a shared Sandbox page, you can also use it for quick (non-permanent) wiki experimentation.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Other_people.27s_user_pages">Other people's user pages</span></h2>
<p>As mentioned above, you will see links to other people's user pages, in various places throughout the wiki.
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="User_Contributions">User Contributions</span></h3>
<p>When viewing another person's user page, an additional link “user contributions&quot; appears in the “tools” of the <s>sidebar</s>. This takes you to a list of all of this user's wiki edits. Use this to get an idea of how prolific a contributor somebody is, or to track down edits made by a user who is causing trouble/making bad wiki edits.
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Editing_someone_else.27s_page">Editing someone else's page</span></h3>
<p>It's generally considered bad etiquette to rewrite or reword another person's user page. Editing is not disallowed, but you should avoid adding information (or especially opinions) which might be misinterpreted as coming from that user, in situations where this could potentially cause upset. Some types of edit are widely acceptable, and unlikely to cause upset:
</p>
<ul><li> Fixing internal links, when a page has been <s>moved</s> or <s>deleted</s></li>
<li> Fixing broken external links</li>
<li> Categorizing or fixing categories of user pages.</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="User_talk_pages">User talk pages</span></h3>
<p>Every user page has an associated talk page; a &quot;user talk page&quot;. This is a special kind of talk page, for leaving messages directed at a particular user. See <a href="Help_Talk_pages.xhtml#User_Talk_pages" title="Help:Talk pages">Help:Talk pages#User Talk pages</a>.
</p><p>. . . . . . . . . .
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.060 seconds
Real time usage: 0.064 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 56/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 163/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 764/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 3/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:306-1!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20160208230156 and revision id 821
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_Help.xhtml">Help</a></p></div></body></html>