<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>INES Mapper 072</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>INES Mapper 072</h1><div class="article">
<p><strong class="selflink">iNES Mapper 072</strong> describes games released on Jaleco's JF-17 board.
</p><p>Pinball Quest will require bus conflicts to be emulated if this mapper is emulated this way.
</p>
<div class="toc" id="toc"><div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Overview"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Overview</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Registers"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Registers</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#PRG_Bank_select_.28.248000-.24FFFF.2C_128s_bit.29"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">PRG Bank select ($8000-$FFFF, 128s bit)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#CHR_Bank_select_.28.248000-.24FFFF.2C_64s_bit.29"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">CHR Bank select ($8000-$FFFF, 64s bit)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Audio_playback_control_.28.248000-.24FFFF.2C_32s_and_16s_bits.29"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">Audio playback control ($8000-$FFFF, 32s and 16s bits)</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-6"><a href="#Hardware"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Hardware</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-7"><a href="#Emulator_oversize_support"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Emulator oversize support</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-8"><a href="#In_Disch.27s_style"><span class="tocnumber">5</span> <span class="toctext">In Disch's style</span></a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Overview">Overview</span></h2>
<ul><li> PRG ROM size: 128 KiB</li>
<li> PRG ROM bank size: 16 KiB</li>
<li> PRG RAM: None</li>
<li> CHR capacity: 128 KiB ROM</li>
<li> CHR bank size: 8 KiB</li>
<li> Nametable <a href="Mirroring.xhtml" title="Mirroring">mirroring</a>: Cuttable trace selects vertical or horizontal mirroring</li>
<li> Subject to <a href="Bus_conflict.xhtml" title="Bus conflict">bus conflicts</a>: Yes </li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Registers">Registers</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="PRG_Bank_select_.28.248000-.24FFFF.2C_128s_bit.29">PRG Bank select ($8000-$FFFF, 128s bit)</span></h3>
<pre> 7  bit  0
 Pxxx .DDD
 |     |||
 |     +++- 16 KB PRG ROM bank for CPU $8000-$BFFF
 +--------- When a 1 is written after a 0 was previously written, load the bank specified by D
</pre>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="CHR_Bank_select_.28.248000-.24FFFF.2C_64s_bit.29">CHR Bank select ($8000-$FFFF, 64s bit)</span></h3>
<pre> 7  bit  0
 xCxx DDDD
  |   ||||
  |   ++++- 8 KB CHR ROM bank for PPU $0000-$1FFF
  +-------- When a 1 is written after a 0 was previously written, load the bank specified by D
</pre>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Audio_playback_control_.28.248000-.24FFFF.2C_32s_and_16s_bits.29">Audio playback control ($8000-$FFFF, 32s and 16s bits)</span></h3>
<pre> 15   11 address   0  7 data  0
 ---- ---- ---- ----  ---- ----
 1... .... ...A AAAA  xxRS ....
              | ||||    ||
              | ||||    |+------ While 0 and no previous sound is playing, start playing
              | ||||    |        sound specified by A.
              | ||||    +------- While 0, the µPD7756C sound IC is held in reset and unable
              | ||||             to make sound.  Hold this low for at least 34 cycles.
              +-++++------------ The sound to play when triggered by S bit
</pre>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Hardware">Hardware</span></h2>
<ul><li> A <a href="74161.xhtml" title="74161">74161</a> is attached to the top 4 bits of the data bus, in the exact same way as in all of Nintendo's discrete logic mappers.</li>
<li> The top two output bits of the '161 connect to the CLOCK pins of two different <a href="74174.xhtml" title="74174">74174s</a>.</li>
<li> The '174 latches the contents of the bottom 4 bits of the data bus when its CLOCK pin goes from 0 to 1.</li>
<li> Three of a <a href="7432.xhtml" title="7432">7432</a>'s OR gates are used to make the PRG act like <a href="UxROM.xhtml" title="UxROM">UNROM</a>. (The last is used to allow for a 28-pin 128kB CHR ROM)</li>
<li> The bottom two output bits of the '161 connect to the /RESET and /START pins of the µPD7756C sound IC.</li></ul>
<p>A design that replaced the '161 with a <a href="74139.xhtml" title="74139">74139</a> could have the side effect of preventing bus conflicts. However, the <a href="INES_Mapper_086.xhtml#References" title="INES Mapper 086">µPD7756</a> requires that its /RESET signal be low for at least 19µs and its /START timing requirements may be too strict for the NES also, so Jaleco used a latch instead of a demultiplexer.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Emulator_oversize_support">Emulator oversize support</span></h2>
<p>Both Nestopia-1.4.0h and FCEUX-2.1.5 support 256KiB PRG and 128KiB CHR.
</p><p>The hardware could easily be generalized to 1 MiB PRG and 512KiB CHR by repurposing the sound control bits.
</p><p><i>See also:</i> <a href="Oversize.xhtml" title="Oversize">Oversize</a>
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="In_Disch.27s_style">In Disch's style</span></h2>
<pre> ========================
 =  Mapper 072          =
 ========================
 
 Example Games:
 --------------------------
 Pinball Quest (J)
 Moero!! Pro Tennis
 Moero!! Juudou Warriors
 
 
 Registers (**BUS CONFLICTS**):
 ---------------------------
 
   $8000-FFFF:  [PCRS DDDD]
     P = When a 1 is written after a 0 was previously written,
         the bottom three bits of the data bus are copied to the PRG bank select
     C = When a 1 is written after a 0 was previously written,
         the bottom four bits of the data bus are copied to the CHR bank select
     R = For games that have add-on sound, while 0,
         the ADPCM playback IC is held in reset and unable to make sound
     S = For games that have add-on sound, when the value written here changes
          (direction unknown because the datasheet contradicts itself), 
         the sound specified by the bottom 5 bits of the address bus is played.
         Leaving the value at 0 will probably result in erratic audio playback.
     D = the three- or four- bit bank number to switch to, as appropriate.
 
 
 Notes:
 ---------------------------
 
 Commands pass through a latch.  Rather than writing to the regs directly, you write the
 desired page number and command to the latch, then send another command that readies it for the next time.
 
    Commands (PC bits together):
      %00 = Do nothing (prepare for next write)
      %01 = Set CHR Page
      %10 = Set PRG page
      %11 = Set both simultaneously
 
    Example:
      If a game wanted to select CHR page 3, it would first write $43, then $03.  The $43 fills the latch with command 
      bits $4, which instruct bank $3 to be used for CHR; then the write of $03 prepares for the next write by
      resetting the command bits to $0. The $03 should be able to be any value from $00 to $0F, because the command
      bits are what is crucial.
 
 No current theory explains why games go to any effort to put the bank's nybble in the second byte, although perhaps
 it has to do with not disturbing the bank registers while the logic propagates.
 
 CHR Setup:
 ---------------------------
 
       $0000   $0400   $0800   $0C00   $1000   $1400   $1800   $1C00 
     +---------------------------------------------------------------+
     |                            CHR Reg                            |
     +---------------------------------------------------------------+
 
 
 PRG Setup:
 ---------------------------
 
       $8000   $A000   $C000   $E000  
     +---------------+---------------+
     |    PRG Reg    |     { -1}     |
     +---------------+---------------+
</pre>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.065 seconds
Real time usage: 0.068 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 33/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 44/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:668-1!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20160208225141 and revision id 10990
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_Discrete_logic_mappers.xhtml">Discrete logic mappers</a>, <a href="Category_Expansion_audio.xhtml">Expansion audio</a>, <a href="Category_INES_Mappers.xhtml">INES Mappers</a>, <a href="Category_In_NesCartDB.xhtml">In NesCartDB</a></p></div></body></html>