<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>INES Mapper 234</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>INES Mapper 234</h1><div class="article">
<p><strong class="selflink">iNES Mapper 234</strong> represents the Maxi 15 multicart, which allows the combination of slightly-modified 32k/32k <a href="CNROM.xhtml" title="CNROM">CNROM</a> and 64k/64k <a href="NINA_003_006.xhtml" title="NINA-003-006">NINA-03</a> games. The only instance of this board was released with 512k/512k, but seems to be laid out in a way that would support a total of 1M/1M in 4 512k ROMs.
</p>
<div class="toc" id="toc"><div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Overview"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Overview</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Registers"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Registers</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Outer_Bank_Control_.28.24FF80-.24FF9F.29"><span class="tocnumber">2.1</span> <span class="toctext">Outer Bank Control ($FF80-$FF9F)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#Lockout_defeat_control_.28.24FFC0-.24FFDF.29"><span class="tocnumber">2.2</span> <span class="toctext">Lockout defeat control ($FFC0-$FFDF)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Inner_Bank_Control_.28.24FFE8-.24FFF7.29"><span class="tocnumber">2.3</span> <span class="toctext">Inner Bank Control ($FFE8-$FFF7)</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Overview">Overview</span></h2>
<ul><li> PRG ROM size: 512 KiB or 1MiB </li>
<li> PRG ROM bank size: 32 KiB inner / 32 or 64 KiB outer</li>
<li> PRG RAM: No</li>
<li> CHR capacity: 512 KiB or 1MiB ROM</li>
<li> CHR bank size: 8 KiB inner / 32 or 64 KiB outer</li>
<li> Nametable <a href="Mirroring.xhtml" title="Mirroring">mirroring</a>: Controlled by mapper.</li>
<li> Subject to <a href="Bus_conflict.xhtml" title="Bus conflict">bus conflicts</a>: Yes</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Registers">Registers</span></h2>
<p>Typical for the Atari 2600, but strange for the NES: Registers lie at $FF80-$FFF7 but bankswitching happens on the <i>value that was read</i>. Bus conflicts are thus avoided by storing the library of desired bankswitch values in ROM. Writes to the registers will produce bus conflicts.
</p><p>All registers are cleared on reset.
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Outer_Bank_Control_.28.24FF80-.24FF9F.29">Outer Bank Control ($FF80-$FF9F)</span></h3>
<pre>7  bit  0
MOQq BBBb  
││││ ││││
││││ └┴┴┴── Block selection
│││└─────── ROMs 3+4 Disable (0=normal, 1=disable ROMs 3+4 even if selected by Q)
││└──────── ROM switch (0=select ROMs 1+2, 1=select ROMs 3+4)
│└───────── Mode (0=CNROM, 1=NINA-03)
└────────── Mirroring (0=Vertical, 1=Horizontal)
</pre>
<p>Since the cartridge was distributed with only ROMs 1+2 populated, the Q and q bits are irrelevant.
</p><p>The q bit seems to have been intended to have been an extra address line for ROMs 3+4, enabling a total of 1.5M/1.5M in the cartridge, but instead of just being routed to the A19 line for ROMs 3+4, it instead also is ORed with the Output Enable signal and so disables them.
</p><p>Once any of the Q, q, BBB, or b bits are set, neither this register nor the Lockout defeat register can be updated.  However, the Inner Bank Control Register can be set even when updates to the other registers are disabled.
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Lockout_defeat_control_.28.24FFC0-.24FFDF.29">Lockout defeat control ($FFC0-$FFDF)</span></h3>
<pre>7  bit  0
.... ..LL
       ││
       └┴── Lockout defeat (charge pump drive)
</pre>
<p>Emulators do not need to implement the lockout defeat control register.
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Inner_Bank_Control_.28.24FFE8-.24FFF7.29">Inner Bank Control ($FFE8-$FFF7)</span></h3>
<pre>7  bit  0
.cCC ...P
 │││    │
 │││    └── PRG page
 └┴┴─────── CHR page
</pre>
<p>Both CNROM and NINA-03 modes select a 32kB bank of PRG ROM at $8000 and an 8kB bank of CHR ROM at $0000. 
</p><p>In CNROM mode, the 32kB PRG ROM bank is BBBb and the 8kB CHR ROM bank is BBBbCC.
</p><p>In NINA-03 mode, the 32kB PRG ROM bank is BBBP and the 8kB CHR ROM bank is BBBcCC.
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.026 seconds
Real time usage: 0.028 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 19/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 24/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:714-1!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20160208225459 and revision id 10566
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_Discrete_logic_mappers.xhtml">Discrete logic mappers</a>, <a href="Category_INES_Mappers.xhtml">INES Mappers</a>, <a href="Category_In_NesCartDB.xhtml">In NesCartDB</a>, <a href="Category_Multicart_mappers.xhtml">Multicart mappers</a></p></div></body></html>