<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>INES Mapper 164</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>INES Mapper 164</h1><div class="article">
<p>These notes are not very good. There is more information to be got. Check some emulator sources and please elaborate here.
</p>
<pre> Those are **not** Disch's original notes:  
 ========================
 =  Mapper 164          =
 ========================
 
 Example Games:
 --------------------------
 Final Fantasy V
 Pokémon Red [宠物红](Waixing)
 
 
 Registers:
 ---------------------------
 
 Range,Mask:   $5000-FFFF, $F300
 
    $5000, $D000:  PRG reg (32k @ $8000)
 
 $6000-7FFF may have SRAM (not sure)
 
 
 On Reset
 ---------------------------
 Reg seems to contain $FF on powerup/reset
 
 
 Notes:
 ---------------------------
 
 Swapping is really simple -- the thing that is funky is the register range/mask.  $5000 and $D000 will access
 the register, however $5100, $5200, etc will not.

 FCEUX implements mapper 164 as:
 $5000: [.... LLLL]
 $5100: [.... HHHH]
 $5300: 8-bit latch
 Writing to either $5000 or $5100 immediately switches a 32kB or 512kB chunk.
 Reading from $5100 or $5900 returns the value of the latch, but not $5500 or $5D00

 Nestopia implements mapper 164 as:
 $5000: [.ABC DLLL]
 $5100: [.... ...H]
 Writing to either immediately switches banks. The interpretation of the address depends on ABC:
 C=0: Switch 16kB at $8000, address specified by HBDLLL; 16kB at $C000 switched to H11111.
 A=0 C=1: undefined (noop)
 ABC=5: Switch 32kB at $8000, address specified by HDLLL
 ABC=7: Switch 16kB at $8000, address specified by HDDLLL; 16kB at $C000 switched to H11111. (Yes, D appears twice)

 Note that the copy of Final Fantasy V in GoodNES does not work correctly in Nestopia. This should <i>not</i> be taken as an indication that Nestopia's implementation is necessarily wrong.
</pre>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.009 seconds
Real time usage: 0.009 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 4/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 1/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:691-1!*!*!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208225323 and revision id 10421
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_INES_Mappers.xhtml">INES Mappers</a></p></div></body></html>