<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>List of games with expansion audio</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>List of games with expansion audio</h1><div class="article">
<p>The following is a list of games that use the Famicom's expansion audio.
</p>
<div class="toc" id="toc"><div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Nintendo_FDS"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Nintendo FDS</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Namco_163"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Namco 163</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Nintendo_MMC5"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Nintendo MMC5</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-4"><a href="#Konami_VRC6"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Konami VRC6</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-5"><a href="#Konami_VRC7"><span class="tocnumber">5</span> <span class="toctext">Konami VRC7</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-6"><a href="#Sunsoft_5B_.28YM2149F.29"><span class="tocnumber">6</span> <span class="toctext">Sunsoft 5B (YM2149F)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-7"><a href="#NEC_.C2.B5PD7756C_.28Jaleco.29"><span class="tocnumber">7</span> <span class="toctext">NEC µPD7756C (Jaleco)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-8"><a href="#Mitsubishi_M50805_.28Bandai.29"><span class="tocnumber">8</span> <span class="toctext">Mitsubishi M50805 (Bandai)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-9"><a href="#References"><span class="tocnumber">9</span> <span class="toctext">References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Nintendo_FDS">Nintendo FDS</span></h2>
<p>See <a href="FDS_audio.xhtml" title="FDS audio">FDS audio</a>.
</p>
<ul><li> Ai Senshi Nicol</li>
<li> Aki to Tsukasa no Fushigi no Kabe</li>
<li> Apple Town Monogatari - Little Computer People</li>
<li> Arumana no Kiseki</li>
<li> Backgammon</li>
<li> Big Challenge! Go! Go! Bowling</li>
<li> Big Challenge! Dogfight Spirit</li>
<li> Bio Miracle Bokutte Upa</li>
<li> Bishoujo Hanafuda Club Vol. 1 - Oichokabu-hen</li>
<li> Bishoujo Hanafuda Club Vol. 2 - Koikoi Bakappana-hen</li>
<li> Bishoujo Sexy Derby</li>
<li> Chinou Game Series 3 - Chisoko Tairiku Orudora</li>
<li> Chinou Game Series 2 - Super Boy Allan</li>
<li> Chinou Game Series 1 - Adian no Tsue</li>
<li> Chitei Tairiku Orudoora</li>
<li> Cleopatra no Mahou</li>
<li> Dead Zone</li>
<li> Deep Dungeon 2 - Yuushi no Monshou</li>
<li> Dirty Pair - Project Eden (SFX only)</li>
<li> Doki Doki Panic</li>
<li> Dracula 2 - Noroi no Fuuin (Castlevania 2)</li>
<li> Egger Land</li>
<li> Vs. Excitebike</li>
<li> Exciting Baseball</li>
<li> Exciting Basket</li>
<li> Exciting Billiard</li>
<li> Exciting Soccer - Konami Cup</li>
<li> Falsion</li>
<li> Famicom Grand Prix II - 3D Hot Rally</li>
<li> Famicom Golf - Japan Course</li>
<li> Famicom Golf - US Course</li>
<li> Famicom Mukashi Banashi - Shin Onigashima</li>
<li> Famicom Mukashi Banashi - Yuuyuuki</li>
<li> Famicom Tantei Club - Kieta Koukeisha</li>
<li> Famicom Tantei Club II - Ushiro ni Tatsu Shoujo</li>
<li> Family Composer</li>
<li> Fire Bam</li>
<li> Gall Force - Eternal Story</li>
<li> Ginga Denshou - Galaxy Odyssey</li>
<li> Gyruss</li>
<li> Hao-kun no Fushigi na Tabi</li>
<li> I am a Teacher - Super Mario no Sweater</li>
<li> I am a Teacher - Teami no Kiso</li>
<li> Idol Hotline - Nakayama Miho no Tokimeki High School</li>
<li> Kaettekita Mario Bros.</li>
<li> Kalin no Tsurugi</li>
<li> Kick and Run</li>
<li> Kiki Kaikai - Dotou-hen</li>
<li> Knight Move</li>
<li> Link no Bouken (Zelda 2)</li>
<li> Lutter</li>
<li> Matou no Houkai - The Hero of Babel</li>
<li> Meikyuu Jiin Dababa</li>
<li> Metroid</li>
<li> Monty no Doki Doki Daisassou - Monty on the Run</li>
<li> Nankin no Adventure</li>
<li> Nazo no Magazine Disk - Nazoler Land Dai 2 Gou</li>
<li> Nazo no Magazine Disk - Nazoler Land Dai 3 Gou</li>
<li> Nazo no Magazine Disk - Nazoler Land Soukan Gou</li>
<li> Nazo no Murasamejou</li>
<li> 19 Neunzehn</li>
<li> Otocky</li>
<li> Parutena no Kagami (Kid Icarus)</li>
<li> Pulsar no Hikari - Space Wars Simulation</li>
<li> Risa no Yousei Densetsu</li>
<li> Santa Claus no Takarabako</li>
<li> Seiken Psycho Calibur - Maju no Mori Densetsu</li>
<li> Sexy Invaders</li>
<li> Suishou no Ryuu</li>
<li> Super Mario Bros. 2</li>
<li> Tarot Uranai</li>
<li> Time Twist</li>
<li> Tobidase Daisakusen</li>
<li> Transformers - The Head Masteres</li>
<li> Zelda no Densetsu (Zelda)</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Namco_163">Namco 163</span></h2>
<p>See <a href="Namco_163_audio.xhtml" title="Namco 163 audio">Namco 163 audio</a>.
</p>
<ul><li> Final Lap (4 channel)</li>
<li> Mappy Kids (4)</li>
<li> Megami Tensei II: Digital Devil Story (4)</li>
<li> Namco Classic 2 (4)</li>
<li> Rolling Thunder (4)</li>
<li> Sangokushi - Chuugen no Hasha (4)</li>
<li> Sangokushi 2 - Haou no Tairiku (4)</li>
<li> Youkai Douchuuki (4, SFX only)</li>
<li> King of Kings (8 channel)</li>
<li> Erika to Satoru no Yumebouken (8)</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Nintendo_MMC5">Nintendo MMC5</span></h2>
<p>See <a href="MMC5_audio.xhtml" title="MMC5 audio">MMC5 audio</a>.
</p>
<ul><li> Just Breed</li>
<li> Metal Slader Glory (very sparingly, mostly in SFX)</li>
<li> Shin 4-Nin Uchi Mahjong (uses PCM)</li>
<li> Uchuu Keibitai SDF (SFX only)</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Konami_VRC6">Konami VRC6</span></h2>
<p>See <a href="VRC6_audio.xhtml" title="VRC6 audio">VRC6 audio</a>.
</p>
<ul><li> Akumajou Densetsu</li>
<li> Esper Dream 2</li>
<li> Madara</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Konami_VRC7">Konami VRC7</span></h2>
<p>See <a href="VRC7_audio.xhtml" title="VRC7 audio">VRC7 audio</a>.
</p>
<ul><li> Lagrange Point</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Sunsoft_5B_.28YM2149F.29">Sunsoft 5B (YM2149F)</span></h2>
<p>See <a href="Sunsoft_5B_audio.xhtml" title="Sunsoft 5B audio">Sunsoft 5B audio</a>.
</p>
<ul><li> Gimmick! (does not use envelope or noise)</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="NEC_.C2.B5PD7756C_.28Jaleco.29">NEC µPD7756C (Jaleco)</span></h2>
<p>See mappers <a href="INES_Mapper_018.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 018">18</a>, <a href="INES_Mapper_072.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 072">72</a>, <a href="INES_Mapper_086.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 086">86</a>, and <a href="INES_Mapper_092.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 092">92</a>.
</p>
<ul><li> Moe Pro! '90: Kandou-hen</li>
<li> Moe Pro!: Saikyou-hen</li>
<li> Moero!! Pro Tennis</li>
<li> Moero!! Pro Yakyuu</li>
<li> Moero!! Pro Yakyuu '88: Kettei Ban</li>
<li> Shin Moero!! Pro Yakyuu</li>
<li> Terao no Dosukoi Oozumou</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Mitsubishi_M50805_.28Bandai.29">Mitsubishi M50805 (Bandai)</span></h2>
<ul><li> Family Trainer 3: Aerobics Studio</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="References">References</span></h2>
<ul><li> <a class="external free" href="http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?f=6&amp;t=9757" rel="nofollow">http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?f=6&amp;t=9757</a> - Famicom games with expansion audio - complete list</li>
<li> <a class="external free" href="http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?f=6&amp;t=8639" rel="nofollow">http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?f=6&amp;t=8639</a> - Famicom expansion hardware recordings</li>
<li> <a class="external free" href="http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?f=9&amp;t=9449" rel="nofollow">http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?f=9&amp;t=9449</a> - Mitsubishi M50805</li>
<li> <a href="Cartridge_connector.xhtml" title="Cartridge connector">Cartridge connector</a></li></ul>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.043 seconds
Real time usage: 0.044 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 35/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 40/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1131-1!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20160607010220 and revision id 12585
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_Expansion_audio.xhtml">Expansion audio</a></p></div></body></html>