<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Nesdev wiki:Manual of Style/RFC 2119</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Nesdev wiki:Manual of Style/RFC 2119</h1><div class="article">
<table style="float:right; width: 30em; border: 1px solid #699; background: #EFF; margin: 0 0 0.5em 1em">

<tr>
<td style="padding: 0.8em; font-size: 150%; text-align: center"> <b>MUST</b><br/><b>SHOULD</b><br/><b>MAY</b>
</td>
<td style="font-size: 80%; line-height:1.3em"> The key words &quot;MUST&quot;, &quot;MUST NOT&quot;, &quot;REQUIRED&quot;, &quot;SHALL&quot;, &quot;SHALL NOT&quot;, &quot;SHOULD&quot;, &quot;SHOULD NOT&quot;, &quot;RECOMMENDED&quot;,  &quot;MAY&quot;, and &quot;OPTIONAL&quot; in this document are to be interpreted as described in <a class="external mw-magiclink-rfc" href="http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119" rel="nofollow">RFC 2119</a>. (<strong class="selflink">what's this?</strong>)
</td></tr></table>
<p>&quot;<b><a class="external mw-magiclink-rfc" href="http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119" rel="nofollow">RFC 2119</a>: Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels</b>&quot; is a <a class="extiw" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Request_for_Comments" title="wikipedia:Request for Comments">RFC memorandum</a> published by the <a class="extiw" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Engineering_Task_Force" title="wikipedia:Internet Engineering Task Force">Internet Engineering Task Force</a> that describes the standard meanings of <a class="extiw" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modal_verb" title="wikipedia:Modal verb">modal verbs</a> and some other words used in Internet standards documents.
Documents that use RFC 2119 indicate that RFC 2119 applies to a given word by writing the word with all capital letters.
</p><p>The most common key words are 
</p>
<dl><dt>MUST or MUST NOT</dt>
<dd> Something is absolutely required.</dd>
<dt>SHOULD or SHOULD NOT</dt>
<dd> Something is strongly recommended.</dd>
<dt>MAY</dt>
<dd> Something is allowable either way.</dd></dl>
<p>Not all pages on this wiki need to indicate requirement levels.
Pages that are descriptive rather than <a class="extiw" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/normative" title="wikipedia:normative">prescriptive</a>, that is, those that describe <a class="extiw" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Is-ought_problem" title="wikipedia:Is-ought problem">what is rather than what ought to be</a>, need not use this convention.
But pages that do indicate requirement levels SHOULD use this convention and SHOULD use the template <tt>{{<a href="Template_RFC_2119.xhtml" title="Template:RFC 2119">RFC 2119</a>}}</tt>, which produces a notice that floats to the right, lest readers confuse these all-capital words with shouting.
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.048 seconds
Real time usage: 0.051 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 26/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 209/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 641/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 16/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 3/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1297-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224635 and revision id 8049
 -->
</div></body></html>