<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>NESdev IRC channel</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>NESdev IRC channel</h1><div class="article">
<div class="toc" id="toc"><div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Connecting"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Connecting</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Topic"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Topic</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Conduct"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Conduct</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-4"><a href="#Bot"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Bot</span></a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Connecting">Connecting</span></h2>
<p>Our IRC channel is located on the <a class="external text" href="http://www.efnet.org/" rel="nofollow">EFnet</a> network.  <a class="external text" href="http://www.efnet.org/?module=servers" rel="nofollow">A list of servers</a> is available.
</p><p>Find yourself an <a class="extiw" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_IRC_clients" title="wikipedia:List of IRC clients">IRC client</a> and drop by to <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.efnet.org/nesdev" rel="nofollow">#nesdev</a> for assistance with your code or hardware related inquiries or interests.
</p><p>Occasionally, EFnet's round-robin DNS may put you on a server that has blocked (G-lined or K-lined) your IP address for some server-specific reason, or it might have the annoying &quot;/QUOTE PONG :cookie&quot; CAPTCHA. You may want to connect to a <a class="external text" href="http://www.efnet.org/?module=servers" rel="nofollow">specific server</a> instead, such as the following:
</p>
<ul><li> North America: <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.servercentral.net/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.servercentral.net</a>, <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.blessed.net/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.blessed.net</a>, <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.prison.net/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.prison.net</a>, <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.igs.ca/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.igs.ca</a></li>
<li> Europe: <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.efnet.ch/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.efnet.ch</a>, <a class="external text" href="irc://efnet.xs4all.nl/nesdev" rel="nofollow">efnet.xs4all.nl</a>, <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.swepipe.se/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.swepipe.se</a>, <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.efnet.ru/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.efnet.ru</a></li>
<li> Middle East: <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.inter.net.il/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.inter.net.il</a></li>
<li> Africa: <a class="external text" href="irc://irc.ac.za/nesdev" rel="nofollow">irc.ac.za</a></li></ul>
<p>Tip: Some IRC servers won't K-line you if you get ident (RFC1413/931) working. <a class="extiw" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ident" title="wikipedia:Ident">Ident</a> is a protocol to associate an IRC connection to a specific user name/account on a computer. Many IRC clients (ex. <a class="external text" href="http://www.mirc.com/" rel="nofollow">mIRC</a>) have built-in ident servers that run on TCP port 113; make sure that's enabled. If you have a firewall or NAT router, these will probably block ident requests until you tell your firewall/router to allow them/port forward them. On the router, you can use use port triggering (outbound TCP 6667 -&gt; inbound TCP 113) or set up a static port forward to your computer (TCP port 113).  If using a software firewall, allow your IRC client to accept inbound connections to TCP port 113.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Topic">Topic</span></h2>
<dl><dt> The channel attempts to follow a standard</dt>
<dd> Voiced (+v) individuals are either friends of operators, respected regulars, or known to have an understanding of the NES/Famicom and its architecture.  Not all of these people will be able to answer questions, but questions will eventually get answered.</dd>
<dt> Code or hardware related questions are better suited for most operators</dt>
<dd> The operators (or ops, +o) of the channel -- like most channels -- were chosen for specific reasons by other operators; mainly that they are trusted with the authority of managing the channel, keeping the bot (LittleMac) opped, having a basic to advanced understanding of 6502, NES/Famicom architecture, and knowledge of other platforms.</dd>
<dd> #nesdev is <b>not the official support channel</b> for <a href="PowerPak.xhtml" title="PowerPak">PowerPak</a> and other <a class="external text" href="http://www.retrousb.com/" rel="nofollow">RetroZone</a> products, but when its inventor is on (under nick bunnyboy or retrousb), you can bring up your support issues in channel or through a private message.</dd></dl>
<p>In summary: #nesdev as a channel exists as a community to casually discuss hardware, software, and NES/Famicom related topics (mainly pertaining to development or hacking).  Off-topic conversation is not discouraged, so long as it does not affect any conversation in the channel related to these topics.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Conduct">Conduct</span></h2>
<dl><dt> As a channel we try to stay casual, informative, and helpful.</dt>
<dd> Users that undesiredly use the help of others as a crutch or talk off-topic much too often will receive negative attention.  ...Just because disapproval isn't publicly expressed, doesn't mean it does not exist or matter intensely. So don't be <a class="external text" href="http://slash7.com/2006/12/22/vampires/" rel="nofollow">Mr. &quot;I vant to suck your help.&quot;</a> TL;DR - people are flexible, within reason.</dd>
<dt> Please be considerate of the majority of our users that log or lurk until insightful discussion has germinated.</dt>
<dd> We don't have rigid rules for bannable offenses; operators may do as they please.</dd>
<dt> #nesdev is not considered a safe for work environment.</dt>
<dd> As discussions started by voices or ops are capable of running to any which direction; unless moderation is necessary.  Please use your own discretion.</dd></dl>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Bot">Bot</span></h2>
<p>We're on our third bot. &quot;LittleMac&quot; is an Eggdrop bot that maintains user privileges.
</p><p>To set your password (only necessary after an user account has been added):
</p>
<pre>/msg LittleMac pass &lt;password&gt;
</pre>
<p>To identify yourself from a new host:
</p>
<pre>/msg LittleMac ident &lt;password&gt;
</pre>
<p>To get ops (if you have +o rights on the bot):
</p>
<pre>/msg LittleMac op &lt;password&gt;
</pre>
<p>To gain help:
</p>
<pre>/msg LittleMac help
</pre>
<p>Welcome!
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.046 seconds
Real time usage: 0.048 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 14/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 28/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:274-1!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20160611172045 and revision id 11385
 -->
</div></body></html>