<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>NINA-001</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>NINA-001</h1><div class="article">
<p><b>NINA-001</b> is a particular third-party cartridge board used by American Video Entertainment. The <a href="INES.xhtml" title="INES">iNES</a> format assigns <a href="INES_Mapper_034.xhtml" title="INES Mapper 034">mapper 34</a> to this board (as well as <a class="mw-redirect" href="BNROM.xhtml" title="BxROM">BxROM</a>).
</p>
<div class="toc" id="toc"><div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Overview"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Overview</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-2"><a href="#Banks"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Banks</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-3"><a href="#Registers"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Registers</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#PRG_bank_select_.28.247FFD.29"><span class="tocnumber">3.1</span> <span class="toctext">PRG bank select ($7FFD)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#CHR_bank_select_0_.28.247FFE.29"><span class="tocnumber">3.2</span> <span class="toctext">CHR bank select 0 ($7FFE)</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-6"><a href="#CHR_bank_select_1_.28.247FFF.29"><span class="tocnumber">3.3</span> <span class="toctext">CHR bank select 1 ($7FFF)</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-7"><a href="#Hardware"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Hardware</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-8"><a href="#Variants"><span class="tocnumber">5</span> <span class="toctext">Variants</span></a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Overview">Overview</span></h2>
<ul><li> PRG ROM size: 64 KB</li>
<li> PRG ROM bank size: 32 KB</li>
<li> PRG RAM: 8 KB, not battery backed <a class="external autonumber" href="http://kevtris.org/mappers/ave/nina-001.html" rel="nofollow">[1]</a></li>
<li> CHR ROM capacity: 64 KB ROM</li>
<li> CHR bank size: 4 KB</li>
<li> Nametable <a href="Mirroring.xhtml" title="Mirroring">mirroring</a>: hardwired to horizontal mirroring</li>
<li> Subject to <a href="Bus_conflict.xhtml" title="Bus conflict">bus conflicts</a>: No</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Banks">Banks</span></h2>
<ul><li> CPU $8000-$FFFF: 32 KB switchable PRG ROM bank</li>
<li> PPU $0000-$0FFF: 4 KB switchable CHR ROM bank</li>
<li> PPU $1000-$1FFF: 4 KB switchable CHR ROM bank</li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Registers">Registers</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="PRG_bank_select_.28.247FFD.29">PRG bank select ($7FFD)</span></h3>
<pre>7  bit  0
---- ----
xxxx xxxP
        |
        +- Select 32 KB PRG ROM bank for CPU $8000-$FFFF
</pre>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="CHR_bank_select_0_.28.247FFE.29">CHR bank select 0 ($7FFE)</span></h3>
<pre>7  bit  0
---- ----
xxxx CCCC
     ||||
     ++++- Select 4 KB CHR ROM bank for PPU $0000-$0FFF
</pre>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="CHR_bank_select_1_.28.247FFF.29">CHR bank select 1 ($7FFF)</span></h3>
<pre>7  bit  0
---- ----
xxxx CCCC
     ||||
     ++++- Select 4 KB CHR ROM bank for PPU $1000-$1FFF
</pre>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Hardware">Hardware</span></h2>
<p>The NINA-001 board contains a 74LS133 (13-input NAND gate), 74LS74 (dual D flip-flop), 74HCT139 (dual 1-4 decoder), 74LS00 (quad 2-input NAND gate), two 74HCT173s (4-bit tristate D flip-flop), as well as a microcontroller labelled NINA to act as a <a class="mw-redirect" href="CIC_lockout_chip.xhtml" title="CIC">CIC</a> defeat mechanism.
These 4 registers reside &quot;on top&quot; of PRG RAM: each write to the register goes both to the register and to the RAM location at the same address. Thus, reading the register's address returns the last value written to the RAM, which is also the last value written to the register.
</p><p>One 2-NAND and one half of the 74'139 together generate /RAMSEL. Another 2-NAND inverts that to form +RAMSEL. A third 2-NAND inverts R/W to produce +WR. The 13-NAND combines +RAMSEL, +WR, and A12…A2 to generate /REGSEL. The other half of the 74'139 uses /REGSEL, A1, and A0 to generate the latching signals for the three flip-flops.
</p><p>The final 2-NAND inverts PPU A12. PPU A12 and PPU /A12 are fed to the two 74'173s /OE inputs, implementing a simple quad 1-of-2 multiplexer.
</p><p>This hardware has a trivial oversize definition that supports 8 MiB PRG and 1 MiB CHR, made by replacing the three flip-flops with 74'374s.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Variants">Variants</span></h2>
<p>The iNES mapper used to implement this mapper also includes a writable register at $8000-$FFFF for emulation of the <a class="mw-redirect" href="BNROM.xhtml" title="BxROM">BxROM</a> boardset which has caused many headaches for NES emulator authors. Emulator developers should consider switching between NINA-001 emulation and BxROM emulation based on the amount of CHR (≥ 16KiB implies NINA-001; ≤ 8KiB implies BNROM).
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.031 seconds
Real time usage: 0.033 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 31/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 36/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:134-1!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20160418010139 and revision id 12179
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_Discrete_logic_mappers.xhtml">Discrete logic mappers</a></p></div></body></html>