<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>PPU pin out and signal description</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>PPU pin out and signal description</h1><div class="article">
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Pin_out">Pin out</span></h3>
<pre>          .--\/--.
   R/W -&gt; |01  40| -- +5
CPU D0 &lt;&gt; |02  39| -&gt; ALE
CPU D1 &lt;&gt; |03  38| &lt;&gt; PPU AD0
CPU D2 &lt;&gt; |04  37| &lt;&gt; PPU AD1
CPU D3 &lt;&gt; |05  36| &lt;&gt; PPU AD2
CPU D4 &lt;&gt; |06  35| &lt;&gt; PPU AD3
CPU D5 &lt;&gt; |07  34| &lt;&gt; PPU AD4
CPU D6 &lt;&gt; |08  33| &lt;&gt; PPU AD5
CPU D7 &lt;&gt; |09  32| &lt;&gt; PPU AD6
CPU A2 -&gt; |10  31| &lt;&gt; PPU AD7
CPU A1 -&gt; |11  30| -&gt; PPU A8
CPU A0 -&gt; |12  29| -&gt; PPU A9
   /CS -&gt; |13  28| -&gt; PPU A10
  EXT0 &lt;&gt; |14  27| -&gt; PPU A11
  EXT1 &lt;&gt; |15  26| -&gt; PPU A12
  EXT2 &lt;&gt; |16  25| -&gt; PPU A13
  EXT3 &lt;&gt; |17  24| -&gt; /RD
   CLK -&gt; |18  23| -&gt; /WR
  /INT &lt;- |19  22| &lt;- /RST
   GND -- |20  21| -&gt; VOUT
          `------'
</pre>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Signal_description">Signal description</span></h3>
<ul><li> R/W, CPU D0-D7, and CPU A0-A2, are signals from the <a href="CPU_pin_out_and_signal_description.xhtml" title="CPU pin out and signal description">CPU</a>. CPU A2-A0 are tied to the corresponding CPU address pins and select the PPU register (0-7).</li>
<li> /CS is generated by the <a href="74139.xhtml" title="74139">74139</a> (address decoder) on the mainboard to map the PPU regs in the CPU memory range from $2000 to $3FFF.</li>
<li> EXTx allows the combination of two PPUs - setting the &quot;slave&quot; bit in the <a class="mw-redirect" href="PPU_registers.xhtml" title="PPUCTRL">PPUCTRL</a> ($2000) register causes the PPU to output palette indices to these pins, and clearing said bit causes it to instead read indices from these pins (and use them to select the background color). For the Vs. System and Playchoice PPUs, EXT0…2 are replaced with R, G, and B respectively. EXT3 is tied to ground; its functionality is unknown.</li>
<li> CLK is the 21.47727 MHz (NTSC) or 26.6017 MHz (PAL) clock input. It is doubled for the color generator (and then divided by 12 to get the colorburst frequency) and also divided by 4 (NTSC) or 5 (PAL) for the pixel and memory clocks.</li>
<li> /INT is connected to the CPU's /NMI pin.</li>
<li> ALE (Address Latch Enable) goes high at the beginning of a PPU VRAM access and is used to latch the lower 8 bits of the PPU's address bus; see the PPU address bus section of <a href="PPU_rendering.xhtml" title="PPU rendering">PPU rendering</a>. It stays high for one PPU cycle.</li>
<li> PPU ADx (Address + Data) is the PPU's data bus, multiplexed with the lower 8 bits of the PPU's address bus.</li>
<li> PPU A8-A13 are the top 6 bits of the PPU's address bus.</li>
<li> /RD and /WR specify that the PPU is reading from or writing to VRAM. As an exception, writing to the internal palette range (3F00-3FFF) will not assert /WR.</li>
<li> /RST resets certain parts of the chip to their initial power-on state: the clock divider, video phase generator, scanline/pixel counters, and the even/odd frame toggle. It also keeps several registers zeroed out for a full frame: <a class="mw-redirect" href="PPU_registers.xhtml" title="PPUCTRL">PPUCTRL</a>, <a class="mw-redirect" href="PPU_registers.xhtml" title="PPUMASK">PPUMASK</a> ($2001), <a class="mw-redirect" href="PPU_registers.xhtml" title="PPUSCROLL">PPUSCROLL</a> ($2005; the VRAM address latch &quot;T&quot;, fine X scroll, and the H/V toggle), and the VRAM read buffer.  It is used in the NES to clear the screen when the console is reset either by the button or the <a class="mw-redirect" href="CIC_lockout_chip.xhtml" title="CIC">CIC</a>, and in a dual-PPU system it can be used to <a class="extiw" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Genlock" title="wikipedia:Genlock">genlock</a> the two PPUs together.</li>
<li> VOUT is the <a href="NTSC_video.xhtml#Brightness_Levels" title="NTSC video">shifted analog video</a> output. For the Vs. System and Playchoice PPUs, this is only the composite sync signal.</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="See_also">See also</span></h3>
<ul><li> <a href="File_Neswires_jpg.xhtml" title="File:Neswires.jpg">Wiring diagram of RF Famicom</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://green.ap.teacup.com/junker/116.html" rel="nofollow">電子機器(Electronics) Junker's redrawn schematic of the HVC-001</a></li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://console5.com/wiki/Nintendo_NES-001#Schematics" rel="nofollow">Electronix Corp's redrawn schematic of the NES-001</a>
<ul><li> Note: Minor error on page &quot;NES 3&quot; for the power led / reset switch board: pin 5 connects to LED, pin 4 connects to switch, pin 3 is +5V.</li></ul></li></ul>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.137 seconds
Real time usage: 0.142 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 11/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 16/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:831-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160806122700 and revision id 12783
 -->
<p class="categories">Categories: <a href="Category_Pinouts.xhtml">Pinouts</a></p></div></body></html>