<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Game bugs</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Game bugs</h1><div class="article">
<p>Actually, there should probably be an option in the emulator to enable &quot;impossible&quot; input if it is wanted (such as to figure out what strange things are happening, or if you want to pretend to be different kind of input devices where it is possible, etc). --<a href="User_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User:Zzo38">Zzo38</a> (<a href="User_talk_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User talk:Zzo38">talk</a>) 18:58, 25 March 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd> Yeah, impossible controller input can be pretty fun, plus TASers love it. I've rephrased it a bit :). -<a href="User_Ulfalizer.xhtml" title="User:Ulfalizer">Ulfalizer</a> (<s>talk</s>) 22:41, 25 March 2013 (MDT)
<dl><dd> Lots of emulators have an option to allow L+R/U+D but it really needs to be prevented by default. Considering that preventing it from happening requires more code than not preventing it (i.e. doing nothing), I think it the phrasing should be more like: &quot;Emulators should prevent this kind of input by default, but may offer an option to turn off this protection for users that want to experiment.&quot; - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 09:02, 27 March 2013 (MDT)
<dl><dd> Done! Are you unable to edit the wiki yourself by the way? I don't guard the stuff I write religiously, and this is pretty sensible stuff with low risk of being controversial. :) --<a href="User_Ulfalizer.xhtml" title="User:Ulfalizer">Ulfalizer</a> (<s>talk</s>) 09:08, 27 March 2013 (MDT)
<dl><dd> I can edit it, I just didn't feel like it for some reason I don't recall. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 00:36, 28 March 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl></dd></dl></dd></dl></dd></dl>
<hr/>
<p>If I'm not wrong, the game Predator has a secret based on impossible inputs. Just press UP + DOWN + JUMP or FIRE to skip the current level. --<a href="User_Zepper.xhtml" title="User:Zepper">Zepper</a> (<s>talk</s>) 18:25, 27 March 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>That could just as easily be a bug. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 00:36, 28 March 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Recent_changes_by_PGCX864">Recent changes by PGCX864</span></h2>
<p>I don't understand the bugs description added recently by PGCX864. They are badly phrased and are not understandable. A more precise description of what looks wrong (and possibly where in the game) is just what is needed.<s>Bregalad</s> (<a href="User_talk_Bregalad.xhtml" title="User talk:Bregalad">talk</a>) 02:06, 29 April 2015 (MDT)
</p><p>And then he does that again. Most of his stuff is incorrect English and is total nonsense.<s>Bregalad</s> (<a href="User_talk_Bregalad.xhtml" title="User talk:Bregalad">talk</a>) 01:48, 12 May 2015 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd> Assume good faith, and <i>ayez de la patience, s'il vous plait</i>. English does not seem to be his first language. (It has an East Asian ring to it.) Of the ones I can puzzle out and check/knew about before, all of them exist. The Megaman ladder trick he refers to is <a class="external text" href="http://tasvideos.org/GameResources/NES/Rockman.html#GrabbingTheTopOfTheLadderTooHighMm1Mm2" rel="nofollow">| this</a>, I believe. <i>Zelda 2</i> having the simultaneous left+right input granting enormous speed is used well in one of the TASes, and likewise in <i>Tiny Toon Adventures</i>. The screen does indeed shake one pixel when a door closes in <i>Castlevania III/Akumajou Densetsu</i>, but I believe this to be an intentional effect from the door slamming shut.  I'll continue to correct what I can. <a href="User_Myask.xhtml" title="User:Myask">Myask</a> (<a href="User_talk_Myask.xhtml" title="User talk:Myask">talk</a>) 03:47, 12 May 2015 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<p>Thanks. As for the Akumajo Densetsu door, I belive it's not intentional, because
</p><p>1. It also shift one pixel when you first touch the door, before it is slamming
2. Castlevania III does not have this bug. If it wasn't a bug it wouldn't have been fixed.
<s>Bregalad</s> (<a href="User_talk_Bregalad.xhtml" title="User talk:Bregalad">talk</a>) 04:42, 12 May 2015 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>It is as you say. I suppose if they'd wanted a serious shake effect, it might be for more than once (compare: shaking after each move of the tower in block 9-03, but obviously the tower moving makes for more shaking than a door would.) Or perhaps they just decided it wasn't nice to look at and cut it out.  Though, they were changing mappers, and there were a fair number of other, less-desirable changes made. (Also, as an aside, I checked <i>Panic Restaurant'</i>s bug myself.) <a href="User_Myask.xhtml" title="User:Myask">Myask</a> (<a href="User_talk_Myask.xhtml" title="User talk:Myask">talk</a>) 04:56, 12 May 2015 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="smooth_sprite_flickering_in_smb3_world_1-4">smooth sprite flickering in smb3 world 1-4</span></h2>
<p>World 1-4 in Super Mario Bros 3, the moving wooden lifts flicker smoothy
--<s>46.130.11.158</s> 03:32, 5 October 2015 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>Sprite flickering occurs in most NES games. What is notable about this example in SMB3 that would make someone think it's a bug? - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 11:13, 5 October 2015 (MDT)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.065 seconds
Real time usage: 0.068 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 7/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 12/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1018-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160606132010 and revision id 11705
 -->
</div></body></html>