<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Nesdev Wiki/current</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Nesdev Wiki/current</h1><div class="article">
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Layout_test_pages">Layout test pages</span></h3>
<p>If you have any example of layout for the wiki that you would like to share, please make a link to your examples here.
</p>
<ul><li> <a href="User_talk_Blargg.xhtml" title="User talk:Blargg">User_talk:Blargg</a> | <a href="Blargg_Main.xhtml" title="Blargg Main">Blargg_Main</a> | <a href="Blargg_PPU.xhtml" title="Blargg PPU">Blargg_PPU</a></li></ul>
<p>Would be nice if the <a class="external free" href="http://nesdev.com/" rel="nofollow">http://nesdev.com/</a> main page made it clearer that all the up-to-date stuff is on the wiki. It's just two links and fairly easy to miss. -<a href="User_Ulfalizer.xhtml" title="User:Ulfalizer">Ulfalizer</a> (<s>talk</s>) 09:32, 12 April 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Anonymous_editing">Anonymous editing</span></h2>
<p>Why are non-registered users allowed to edit talk pages ?
<s>Bregalad</s> (<a href="User_talk_Bregalad.xhtml" title="User talk:Bregalad">talk</a>) 09:23, 27 March 2014 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>As a means of reporting technical problems with registration to registered users, for one. Almost all automated vandalism gets reverted within twenty-four hours anyway. And because some drive-by edits have in fact been constructive. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 18:29, 27 March 2014 (MDT)</dd>
<dd>It also makes spambots less likely to skip immediately to the sign-up page. Instead, they try to post on whatever pages anonymous visitors can post on, where the <s>ABUSE filter</s> picks up on behavior patterns in the bot software. Looking at all the <s>$#!+ that  get through</s> helps me figure out how to stop even those spambots that bother to register. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 19:54, 16 July 2014 (MDT)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.053 seconds
Real time usage: 0.057 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 6/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 12/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:970-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160224224111 and revision id 11964
 -->
</div></body></html>