<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:PPU memory map</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:PPU memory map</h1><div class="article">
<p>- I believe that <i>memory range</i> illustrates better than <i>offset / size</i>. Example: $3F00-$3F0F - background palette; $3F10-$3F1F - sprites palette.
</p><p>- Additionally, it shouldn't use the term <i>palette</i>, since it's <i>not</i> palette, but <s>indexes to the palette signals</s>, since there's no real RGB palette.--<a href="User_Zepper.xhtml" title="User:Zepper">Zepper</a> 00:59, 30 March 2010 (UTC)
</p><p><br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p><br/>
Like mentioned at the bottom of the page, this is a place holder for the PPU memory map since there was none in the first place. It's based on a similar structure to the CPU one and from nestech document as a source.  It will require improvement. <a href="User_Banshaku.xhtml" title="User:Banshaku">Banshaku</a> 03:09, 30 March 2010 (UTC)
</p><p><br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p><br/>
- Unfortunately, I can't go ahead and create a custom PPU memory table of my wishes... ^_^;; Perhaps tepples can?--<a href="User_Zepper.xhtml" title="User:Zepper">Zepper</a> 21:23, 30 March 2010 (UTC)
</p><p><br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p><br/>
What do you mean? Anybody has the right to update the wiki. Unless you mean you don't know how to use wiki table format? I don't really know either, just used the format for the CPU one. I would still prefer ascii art actually. <a href="User_Banshaku.xhtml" title="User:Banshaku">Banshaku</a> 22:58, 30 March 2010 (UTC)
</p>
<hr/>
<p>There is a set of CSS styles to make tables look prettier. But it's not installed by default in installations of MediaWiki, and only a user in the 'sysop' group can edit the site CSS to install it. I was a sysop on Atarimike's nesdevwiki.org, but the group was never reassigned upon the server move to Parodius. What is the procedure to request rights on this wiki? --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> 13:58, 31 March 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>As far as I can gather from what I've been told on the forum, <a href="User_Ndwiki.xhtml" title="User:Ndwiki">User:Ndwiki</a> is a <a class="extiw" href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/meta:role_account" title="wikipedia:meta:role account">role account</a>, and I'm supposed to e-mail Parodius staff to get the password. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> 01:52, 1 April 2010 (UTC)
</p><p><br/>
</p>
<hr/>
<p>Well, I did the changes. :) Anyway, here's something to discuss: it says &quot;Either CHR ROM or CHR RAM depending on the board&quot;. For my best, the PPU memory 0000-1FFF is <b>CHR RAM</b>: the hardware chip is RAM, not ROM. The CHR ROM data is always in the cartridge. In that case, CHR ROM <i>appears</i> there. Could someone clarify if it's copied, mirrored or whatever..? --<a href="User_Zepper.xhtml" title="User:Zepper">Zepper</a> 13:46, 3 April 2010 (UTC)
</p>
<hr/>
<p>Are the nametable mirrors at $3xxx ever accessed by the internal logic of the PPU during rendering? --<a href="User_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User:Zzo38">Zzo38</a> (<a href="User_talk_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User talk:Zzo38">talk</a>) 23:11, 8 June 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.026 seconds
Real time usage: 0.028 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 4/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 1/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:415-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224347 and revision id 6695
 -->
</div></body></html>