<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Music tools</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Music tools</h1><div class="article">
<p>The drum to sample converter links to a thread which links to a dead link. Has anyone made a backup of the tool ? So we can link to it on nesdev main page or something like that instead ? Bregalad 20:32, 30 October 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>Sorry about that. My server's hard drive crashed and I moved to a new provider. I've restored the archive from backup. <a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> 01:38, 31 October 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>Great, then maybe we could have a working link ?Bregalad 11:23, 31 October 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>Augh, the web server was down. I turned it back on... <a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> 02:30, 1 November 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>Good, but I don't see any .exe file or anything in the like in the archive Bregalad 14:03, 5 November 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>I never claimed there was, it always was a perl script with some dependencies. <a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> 15:11, 5 November 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>OK and how am I supposed to compile/run this on my computer ?? Bregalad 17:25, 5 November 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>Under linux, install perl, PDL, and PDL::Audio. Under windows... I dunno, the thread had someone there try to get it working but didn't succeed. I really haven't thought about this for two years. The 'right' solution is to figure out how on earth libfftw works and rewrite it in C, but I haven't bothered. <a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> 22:05, 5 November 2010 (UTC)
</p><p>OK Ubuntu currently crashes before booting on my PC (stupid non-working automatic updates) but I'll try re-installing it when I'll have the time for that and hopefully get it working.Bregalad 18:14, 6 November 2010 (UTC)
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.012 seconds
Real time usage: 0.013 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 4/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 1/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:504-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224253 and revision id 1988
 -->
</div></body></html>