<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Namco 163</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Namco 163</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Wither_106.3F">Wither 106?</span></h2>
<p>I see that Namco 106 has been eradicated from the text of the wiki. I don't know where the number 106 came from originally, so I'm not defending its existence at all, however, it deserves some mention, at least on this page, because it is a commonly used name, even if incorrect. Having no mention of it at all will make it confusing for those who are trying to look it up. Some older programs, like VirtuaNSF or PPMCK/MML use the name 106, for instance.
</p><p>I'll add a note to this page's lead, but I'd appreciate if someone who knows more about the issue would revise it. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 10:04, 11 February 2013 (MST)
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Extra_128_bytes_of_PRG_RAM">Extra 128 bytes of PRG RAM</span></h2>
<p>What is this? Could you please explain it in the article somewhere? (I can't find the information.) Adding it to just the infobox is hella confusing. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 11:01, 23 April 2015 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>Is this referring to the internal audio RAM? I don't think that should be considered as PRG-RAM, since it's not on the PRG address bus, but written through a port. (It's no more PRG-RAM than CHR-RAM is.) If you want to explain that it can be used as RAM if needed, this needs a proper description in the article. (Presumably you have to disable audio via $E000 to do this? I know the audio hardware normally writes to its own channel registers while operating.) - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 11:24, 23 April 2015 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<dl><dd><dl><dd> Yes, the internal audio RAM. I don't know that the internal postincrement is fast enough to keep up with execution or DMA, but several games use it for saving, so even given its indirect addressing, it seems important to mention. —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 12:50, 23 April 2015 (MDT)</dd></dl></dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.021 seconds
Real time usage: 0.023 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 6/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 12/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:988-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224321 and revision id 10391
 -->
</div></body></html>