<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Overscan</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Overscan</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="PAL_DAR">PAL DAR</span></h2>
<p>If I'm doing the math correctly, PAL display aspect ratio is ≈1.48:1, or close enough to 3:2. So do PAL games basically come pre-widescreen? How does the vertical alignment compare?—<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 18:53, 9 April 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>I have no access to a PAL NES, PAL famiclone, or PAL TV, but I'm getting in the neighborhood of 1.39:1. Could you explain the math that leads to 1.48:1? But for this comment, assume that the 240px of the NES picture is in fact vertically centered on the 288px tall PAL picture. A widescreen TV will show 216px minus overscan, and overscan is (I'll guess) 12px per side, so anything designed for a 192px tall safe area will fit properly. And the old Nintendo BG planning sheet did assume a 192px tall safe area. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 19:29, 9 April 2013 (MDT)
<dl><dd>Just going on what was said in the page: 1.3862 × 256 ÷ 240 = 1.4786. Am I doing that wrong? —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 19:46, 9 April 2013 (MDT)
<dl><dd>Oh, my fault, I misread your first comment. 1.48 is the DAR. I've been so focused on getting proper PAR that sometimes I forget about DAR. But you'd need a DAR near 1.78 to be widescreen friendly. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 21:38, 9 April 2013 (MDT)
<dl><dd>Having a vertical active area of 200px (back of the envelope: 256×9÷16×1.3862) puts &quot;de-letterboxed widescreen PAL 16:9&quot; as convenient as 4:3 SDTV, which is perhaps worth keeping in mind.—<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 01:02, 10 April 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl></dd></dl></dd></dl></dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.032 seconds
Real time usage: 0.035 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 8/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1030-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224337 and revision id 5991
 -->
</div></body></html>