<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Four Score</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Four Score</h1><div class="article">
<p>Is it possible to use the NES Four Score connected to each NES controller port and to the Famicom four-player adapter to make eight players? --<a href="User_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User:Zzo38">Zzo38</a> (<a href="User_talk_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User talk:Zzo38">talk</a>) 13:39, 20 March 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>That depends on photos of the controller sockets on the Famicom four-player adapter. If they're identical to NES controller sockets, or an extension cable would make them that way, I don't see how it wouldn't work. Just make sure at least one of them is actually a (wired) Four Score; two (infrared) NES Satellite accessories would probably just interfere with each other. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 14:45, 20 March 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<dl><dd>The wired controllers (<a class="extiw" href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Wikipedia_nes_fourscore.jpg" title="commons:File:Wikipedia nes fourscore.jpg">commons:File:Wikipedia_nes_fourscore.jpg</a>) plug into both ports on the from on the NES or AV Famicom. Player 1 and 2 are permanently attached to the plain famicom. You <i>could</i> cut apart a NES four score and solder on a DA15 connector to get 6 players on a conventional famicom.</dd>
<dd>The Famicom expansion port doesn't connect to $4016.0, so there's a bunch of discussion/confusion on the internet about how Hori's four player adapter could possibly work. Nonetheless, games do expect the four player adapter to work as outlined on <a href="Standard_controller.xhtml" title="Standard controller">Standard controller</a> —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 13:55, 21 March 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.044 seconds
Real time usage: 0.054 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 4/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 1/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1013-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160603204743 and revision id 12555
 -->
</div></body></html>