<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Program compatibility</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Program compatibility</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Passive-aggressive">Passive-aggressive</span></h2>
<p>How is this any more passive-aggressive than <a href="Game_bugs.xhtml" title="Game bugs">Game bugs</a>? --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 18:16, 28 July 2015 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>It's passive-aggressive because you have a direct way of dealing with the problem that raydempsey had a bug in his <i>in-development game</i>. I think it's quite rude to put it on a list like this given the situation. He's still working on it! Your edit said &quot;<s>namin' and shamin'</s>&quot;, I presume as a joke, but I think it's an accurate description of what it was effectively doing. This is completely different than enumerating bugs in long-dead software by people who are not members of this community.</dd></dl>
<dl><dd>Yes, you did let him know directly on the board. That part was good. In light of this your actions weren't passive-aggressive as a whole. I was really just referring to the act of putting up a public notice about someone's bug, which by itself is a rather rude and passive-aggressive way of telling them to fix their software.</dd></dl>
<dl><dd>The other entries on the list are probably fine/useful. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 21:21, 28 July 2015 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Compatible_and_Incompatible">Compatible and Incompatible</span></h2>
<p>I'm not sure I understand the utility of the three categories. I think the approach taken by <a href="Game_bugs.xhtml" title="Game bugs">Game bugs</a> is better. We should just be listing bugs in homebrew games, possibly with categorization by the nature of the bug.
</p><p>The compatible category seems pointlessly incomplete. There is a great deal of homebrews software that should be considered &quot;compatible&quot;. I would also suggests that all software has bugs; we just haven't found bugs in these ones yet. ;P I get that the word &quot;compatible&quot; is supposed to refer to emulators vs. hardware, but that's a moving target. Every emulator is different.
</p><p>What does &quot;incompatible programs&quot; mean? Crash on boot? I'm sure each of these games has a different reason for failing to run. It's mildly useful to have a list of software that shouldn't be expected to run on a good emulator, but this form is rather poor information.
</p><p>On a related note, does anyone else get occasional black squares in the world background when running the Super Bat Puncher demo on their PowerPak? I've always thought it had a bug, but I never tracked down what it was. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 21:33, 28 July 2015 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd> I investigated the four listed games, and have revised the structure of the page like I suggested. I think we should just put any homebrew bugs here, not just emulator compatibility issues, though obviously the compatibility is a big problem for homebrew in a way that it (mostly) wasn't for commercial-era games, so I've tried to make that prominently explained at the top. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 22:33, 28 July 2015 (MDT)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.044 seconds
Real time usage: 0.047 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 6/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 12/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1565-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224405 and revision id 11352
 -->
</div></body></html>