<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Power Pad</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Power Pad</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Metric">Metric</span></h2>
<p>Are we sure those spacings are in mm and not in inches? 252mm is so close to 254mm=10in, and 285mm is only ¾mm away from 11¼in... <a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> 18:34, 17 October 2011 (UTC)
</p>
<dl><dd>I had the metric side of the ruler out when I measured the distances from button 1 to buttons 2 and 5 because when I was measuring it, I was discussing DDR with Jeroen, and he's Dutch. For comparison, the commonly accepted dimensions of each square of a DDR pad are either 11 inches by 11 inches or 280 mm by 280 mm. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> 22:54, 17 October 2011 (UTC)
<dl><dd>I just measured my own Power Pad, and I came up with about 9⅜&quot; x 11¼&quot; by measuring between the white spots on the upper-left corners of each button. --<a href="User_Quietust.xhtml" title="User:Quietust">Quietust</a> 23:42, 17 October 2011 (UTC)</dd></dl></dd></dl>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Rollover">Rollover</span></h2>
<p>&quot;It is not known whether the Family Trainer mat has included diodes for n-key-rollover, or whether pressing buttons on three corners of a square will cause a ghost press on the last corner.&quot;
And how about the Power Pad? Does it? —<a href="User_Myask.xhtml" title="User:Myask">Myask</a> (<a href="User_talk_Myask.xhtml" title="User talk:Myask">talk</a>) 22:17, 19 July 2016 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd> The Power Pad detects every button separately, just like the ordinary joypad. The only reason it's in question with the Family Trainer Mat is that the API is very clearly just scanning a matrix of buttons, where button ghosting can easily be a problem (and a diode for each button can be expensive in large matrices). —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 23:35, 19 July 2016 (MDT)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.028 seconds
Real time usage: 0.030 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 6/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 12/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:627-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160720141349 and revision id 12753
 -->
</div></body></html>