<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Board table</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Board table</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Old_and_outdated">Old and outdated</span></h2>
<p>Man I can't belive this old and outdated table has been copied to this wiki. Shouldn't a link to the complete and recently updated Bootgod's database be better ?!?Bregalad 18:35, 8 June 2011 (UTC)
</p>
<dl><dd>This page can be downloaded as HTML and searched offline with Ctrl+F in a web browser. What tool do you recommend for displaying and searching the <a class="external text" href="http://bootgod.dyndns.org:7777/xml.php" rel="nofollow">NesCartDB XML</a> offline? I <i>could</i> make a short Python program that updates this table from the XML; would that be better? --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> 19:22, 8 June 2011 (UTC)</dd></dl>
<p>You got a point. Although even better, the table could be downloaded in txt. I always throught it could be amazing to have the board list when going to a garage sale and you see games you don't remember which board they use (to use them for donnor cart). Now that I have a powerpak, I don't need devcarts anymore though so this is no problem anymore for me, therefore I didn't think about the offline thing. Your tool in Python sounds good but shouldn't it be a bit hard to do ? Well if you feel like it I'm not preventing anyone from doing it.Bregalad 19:50, 8 June 2011 (UTC)
</p>
<dl><dd>The Python program wouldn't be too hard. It would go essentially like this: load the XML from NesCartDB, load the existing rarity value for each title (NesCartDB doesn't track these), and then for each title that was released in the NTSC NES region, spit out the mapper number and board name in wiki table format that I can paste here. I might work on it after I finish my current project, which is related to the NESdev compo hosted by NA. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> 01:36, 9 June 2011 (UTC)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.015 seconds
Real time usage: 0.016 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 8/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1099-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208223934 and revision id 9450
 -->
</div></body></html>