<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Sunsoft 5B audio</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Sunsoft 5B audio</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Disch.27s_Notes">Disch's Notes</span></h2>
<p>Why was all of this added here? The noise generator is possibly useful (though I will need to verify it), but everything else is entirely redundant, and with a lot of speculative/weasel wording for things are now properly understood. The frequency calculation is also incorrect, and so are some statements that presume it to be an AY and not a YM. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 01:00, 6 May 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>I've removed all of the redundant or incorrect information, and moved the remaining new information into the article. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 01:10, 6 May 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<dl><dd><dl><dd> I moved it so that there was only one page we had to remove wrong information from. —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 12:46, 6 May 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl></dd></dl>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="LFSR_noise">LFSR noise</span></h2>
<p>By the way, someone made a program that will calculate the taps of a LFSR, given a recording: <a class="external free" href="http://listengine.tuxfamily.org/lists.tuxfamily.org/hatari-devel/2012/09/msg00003.html" rel="nofollow">http://listengine.tuxfamily.org/lists.tuxfamily.org/hatari-devel/2012/09/msg00003.html</a> —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 15:29, 7 May 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>Hmm, that program doesn't look -quit- that simple. I'd first have to decode the recording to a binary stream, but it looks like it could do the work from there. Most of the emulations I've checked are using the 17/14 tap configuration mentioned in that thread. Thanks for the link, though, I'll try to make use of it when I get around to testing my 5B. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 14:09, 8 May 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="YMZ284_vs_YM2149">YMZ284 vs YM2149</span></h2>
<p>The datasheet for the YMZ284 claims that the top four bits of the data written to register $F must be 0 or else ... something. It'd be idly interesting find out what that something is, and if the 5B does that same something. —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 16:54, 14 November 2014 (MST)
</p>
<dl><dd>Is the &quot;or else&quot; a consequence that involves the I/O port? If so, how would you verify it with the 5B? If there's a test you'd like me to run on the 5B let me know, but I have no idea what I'd be looking for with this suggestion. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 17:33, 17 November 2014 (MST)</dd></dl>
<dl><dd><dl><dd> The YMZ284 doesn't have any I/O ports, so I have no idea what the top four bits are. Just that the datasheet says &quot;those bits must be 0&quot; and that it &quot;controls power&quot;, so it's clearly hooked up to something. So I guess the obvious test is writing non-zero to those bits and see if it obviously changes the sound? If it does, then it seems likely that we know the exact heritage used in the 5B. —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 18:18, 17 November 2014 (MST)</dd></dl></dd></dl>
<dl><dd><dl><dd><dl><dd>Well, perhaps an emulator could be made to display a warning if it finds these bits to be nonzero. (It won't answer that question, but it would allow to test that a program isn't doing anything it isn't allowed to do.) --<a href="User_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User:Zzo38">Zzo38</a> (<a href="User_talk_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User talk:Zzo38">talk</a>) 14:50, 21 November 2014 (MST)</dd></dl></dd></dl></dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.035 seconds
Real time usage: 0.037 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 10/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 16/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1046-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224436 and revision id 9298
 -->
</div></body></html>