<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:List of games by mirroring technique</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:List of games by mirroring technique</h1><div class="article">
<p>This page was created with a good intention of cleaning up the mirroring page, and I thank Rainwarrior for that. However, this raises a new (unrelated) question. Is it in scope of the wiki to do List of games by xxx ?
</p><p>Then we could do list of games by mapper, list of games by genres, list of games by publisher/developer list of games by sprite size (8x8 or 8x16), and so on and so forth. I do believe this kind of lists can be useful and interesting, for instance, Bootgod's databse is extremely useful in listing games by mapper or board or other hardware related factors.
</p><p>However, we have to know that there is more than 1500 FC/NES games officially, and much more if we include pirated games sold in 3rd world countries (and I know someone will include them eventually). Do we really want to maintain lists of such games?<s>Bregalad</s> (<a href="User_talk_Bregalad.xhtml" title="User talk:Bregalad">talk</a>) 02:58, 18 May 2015 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>I don't want to maintain it, myself, but that's not why I created the article. Bootgod only contains mirroring information from iNES headers, it'll never have information on rendering techniques, so I do think this article could be potentially useful. I wanted to create a space where PGCX864 can contribute the wealth of minutiae he seems to be interested in, organized in a place where it can be useful on its own, rather than becoming a detriment-by-verbosity in an importan reference article like <a href="Mirroring.xhtml" title="Mirroring">Mirroring</a>. It's not a great article at the moment, but I think it has potential, and isn't harming the wiki. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 12:00, 18 May 2015 (MDT)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.024 seconds
Real time usage: 0.026 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 4/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 1/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1539-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208224217 and revision id 10800
 -->
</div></body></html>