<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:Tile compression</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:Tile compression</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Citing_external_sources_for_format_details">Citing external sources for format details</span></h2>
<p>On 2016-05-02, Bisqwit made <s>this edit</s> to <i>&quot;Spell out the format. Depending on external links for textual content is bad wiki practice.&quot;</i> But I seem to remember about a year earlier, when I was making <s>these edits</s> about LZSS as used in GBA/DS BIOS, that someone was confused about the scope of this page, whether I was making a complete format reference or not, especially for formats not used on NES. This &quot;someone&quot; may have been on forums.nesdev.com or in #nesdev on EFnet; I don't remember exactly. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 07:24, 4 May 2016 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>I think it was me, and I believe my confusion was that comprehending the stuff on the wiki page depended on information behind the link (which already fully described it), which I felt made the wiki material either useless or redundant (depending on whether you'd read the linked page). I believe I was in favour of just linking it with a brief summary instead, but revising it to have fully formed ideas was an acceptable alternative. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 12:21, 4 May 2016 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Non-NES_compression_algorithms">Non-NES compression algorithms</span></h2>
<p>Details about compression used in commercial games for another platform other than NES has nothing to do there, in my opinion. Only designs which are useful for either homebrew development or romhacking existing games or using them as inspiration for homebrew is useful.
<s>178.196.73.155</s> 14:25, 20 August 2016 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd> Why would explaining how a compression format for another CPU of comparable computational ability <i>not</i> belong here? We're not describing LZMA. —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 18:12, 20 August 2016 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<dl><dd> Compression formats are separated from the CPU encoding or decoding them, so there is no problem describing any format. However, explaining the details how a particular game compress its data do, in my opinion, not belong here, but to the data crystal romhacking wiki.</dd></dl>
<p><s>Bregalad</s> (<a href="User_talk_Bregalad.xhtml" title="User talk:Bregalad">talk</a>) 13:31, 22 August 2016 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd> I should think that the note about GBA/DS video memory doesn't really belong here, because it is not applicable to NES/Famicom, even if the same format may be used. --<a href="User_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User:Zzo38">Zzo38</a> (<a href="User_talk_Zzo38.xhtml" title="User talk:Zzo38">talk</a>) 16:22, 22 August 2016 (MDT)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.072 seconds
Real time usage: 0.122 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 6/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 12/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1640-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160823013223 and revision id 12820
 -->
</div></body></html>