<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>Talk:INES Mapper 028</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>Talk:INES Mapper 028</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Miscellany">Miscellany</span></h2>
<p>Does this mapper use RAM at $6000-$7FFF? PRG RAM? Whatever? --<a href="User_Zepper.xhtml" title="User:Zepper">Zepper</a> (<s>talk</s>) 06:15, 18 September 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>It supports the same <a href="PRG_RAM_circuit.xhtml" title="PRG RAM circuit">PRG RAM at $6000-$7FFF</a> that the iNES format implies for most discrete mappers. There's no disable register, if that's what you meant. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 12:47, 18 September 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<p>Are both the inner and outer PRG regs always used in PRG swaps? --<a href="User_Zepper.xhtml" title="User:Zepper">Zepper</a> (<s>talk</s>) 18:44, 21 September 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>Both registers are used to form the final 16K bank number unless you're in P=G=0 mode, in which case only the outer bank is used. But if you're just switching banks within one game, you're probably writing only to the inner PRG register. Let me make an analogy to a possibly more familiar mapper, <a href="MMC1.xhtml" title="MMC1">MMC1</a>: Consider the inner PRG register like $E000 and the outer like bit 4 of $A000 on SUROM/SXROM. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 12:57, 22 September 2013 (MDT)</dd></dl>
<p>Yes, but there's something weird for me. While the PRG diagram shows $8000-$BFFF to use R:01, _and_ $C000-$FFFF to use R:81, I think such PRG bank selection would be _separated_. Later, there's an info regarding <b>ORing both PRG registers</b> $01 and $81 (and making shift and ANDs) _to compose_ the desired PRG page. Could someone clarify it? --<a href="User_Zepper.xhtml" title="User:Zepper">Zepper</a> (<s>talk</s>) 18:56, 24 September 2013 (MDT)
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="DRY_failure">DRY failure</span></h2>
<p>Apropos of the edit log for the page itself, I'm pretty certain this page's existence is a DRY failure. Why do we have documentation for the same thing in two places? —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<a href="User_talk_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User talk:Lidnariq">talk</a>) 20:50, 2 April 2015 (MDT)
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.062 seconds
Real time usage: 0.066 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 6/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 12/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1212-1!*!0!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160603204815 and revision id 12566
 -->
</div></body></html>