<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>User talk:Ndwiki</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>User talk:Ndwiki</h1><div class="article">
<p>If your intent is to transfer the contents of the old wiki to this one, it would be much simpler to <a class="external text" href="http://nesdevwiki.org/wiki/Special:Export" rel="nofollow">Export</a> all of the pages from the old wiki (revision histories included) to an XML file, then <s>Import</s> it here. --<a href="User_Quietust.xhtml" title="User:Quietust">Quietust</a> 15:47, 11 June 2009 (UTC)
</p><p><br/>
Ho... I was not aware of this option. Thanks for the comment.  I have imported by hand the most common page already so I don't know how much it would clash if I do an import now. hmm..  How much value is the history of the old one, this is more the question now.
</p>
<ul><li>You may find <a class="external text" href="http://nesdevwiki.org/wiki/Special:Allpages" rel="nofollow">this page</a> to be of significant convenience. Especially take note of the &quot;Namespace&quot; dropdown. --<a href="User_Quietust.xhtml" title="User:Quietust">Quietust</a> 03:54, 13 June 2009 (UTC)</li></ul>
<p><br/>
Thanks for the comment.  I have been checking all the special page one by one yesterday to see which one were relevant.  Now I will just use the export option for the few pages left. They are mostly pages that will be re-located in the &quot;getting started&quot; section (tutorial etc).  I don't know much about wiki editing so I still have a lot to learn but hey, at least we have content now :) 
</p><p>By the way, your emulator is great. Continue the good work. If you could add shortcuts for the key in the debugging mode like visual studio, that would be quite useful! --<s>Banshaku</s> 04:07, 13 June 2009 (UTC)
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="User_CSS">User CSS</span></h2>
<p>I'm away from the computer with ndwiki's password. Can someone turn on user CSS in LocalSettings.php so that I can test site styles before I su to deploy them? If not, I will in a few hours.
</p>
<pre>
$wgAllowUserCss = true;
</pre>
<p>--<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> 14:20, 2 April 2010 (UTC)
</p>
<dl><dd>Done. It took me a while to get used to koitsu's FreeBSD installation: it lacks nano, and its vim lacks the insert-mode key bindings that another popular Free operating system has. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> 21:16, 2 April 2010 (UTC)</dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.025 seconds
Real time usage: 0.027 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 6/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 28/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:60-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208230055 and revision id 1509
 -->
</div></body></html>