<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>User:Zzo38/Mapper A</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>User:Zzo38/Mapper A</h1><div class="article">
<p>This is the &quot;AY-3-8910 only&quot; mapper. Registers are mapped to the PPU address space $3000-$3FFF, and only the address is used; the data isn't used for writing the mapper registers. This can be accessed by writing $2006.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Submappers">Submappers</span></h2>
<p>Bit0 specifies the mirroring mode. If clear, uses hardwired H or V mirroring. If set, it specifies software-controlled one-screen mirroring; the mirroring bit in the iNES header is then used to specify which bit of which register is used to control it (H=bit7 of port A, V=bit7 of port B).
</p><p>The other bits are used to select the output levels and filters of each channel output; currently only zero is defined, meaning that all three channels are mixed with the 2A03 and microphone audio at equal volume.
</p>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Registers">Registers</span></h2>
<p>Registers are write-only and are not accessible during rendering. To write to a register: Set the PPU address to $300x or $330x (bit10 and bit11 are ignored; the registers are mirrored), where x is the register number. Set the PPU address to $32xx, where x is the value to write. Something like this may work (untested):
</p>
<pre>
  ; Write A to port Y
  ldx #$33
  stx PPUADDR
  sty PPUADDR
  dex
  stx PPUADDR
  sta PPUADDR
</pre>
<p>These are the registers of the AY-3-8910 when the BDIR pin is fixed high.
</p><p>The bankswitching is done using the two I/O ports of the AY-3-8910. The mapper will not work properly unless both ports are in output mode, so after reset this should be done at first. 
To keep the high address lines from floating while the I/O ports are still in input mode, PRG bank lines should have pull-up resistors. An emulator should assume these resistors are present, even though some cartridges might not.
Still, all 32K PRG ROM banks should contain at least some reset code because the player can press Reset at any time.
</p>
<ul><li> 32K PRG ROM banks are selected by writing the bank number to the low bits of port A.</li>
<li> 8K PRG RAM banks are mapped to $6000-$7FFF and are selected by writing the bank number to the high bits of port A.</li>
<li> 8K CHR ROM or CHR RAM banks are selected by writing the bank number to the low bits of port B.</li>
<li> If both CHR ROM and CHR RAM is present, and four-screen mirroring is specified in the iNES header, then there is 8K RAM split at $0000-$0FFF and $2000-$2FFF, and 8K ROM split at $1000-$1FFF and $3000-$3EFF. The RAM bank is then selected by the high bits of port B.</li>
<li> If both CHR ROM and CHR RAM is present, and four-screen mirroring isn't specified in the iNES header, then the high bit of port B selects between ROM and RAM in $0000-$1FFF.</li></ul>
<p>Note: Normally there is PRG ROM and CHR ROM, but no PRG RAM and CHR RAM. Nevertheless, use of RAM is well-defined and with some extra logic it can be added to the board (if there is no RAM, then all the decoding logic is either part of the AY-3-8910 or it is already decoded in the cartridge connector; therefore a 60-pins cartridge will have three chips and a 72-pins cartridge will have four chips).
</p>
<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.022 seconds
Real time usage: 0.039 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 10/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 32/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:1117-1!*!*!!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208230556 and revision id 6950
 -->
</div></body></html>