<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>User:Koitsu</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>User:Koitsu</h1><div class="article">
<p>My name is Jeremy Chadwick, otherwise known as koitsu, k9, or (more famously) Y0SHi/Yoshi.  I've done lots of things, just like every other human.
</p><p><b>I'm an administrator for the nesdev forum and nesdev wiki.</b> If you have problems requiring attention with either of these, I'm pretty easy to reach.
</p>
<div class="toc" id="toc"><div id="toctitle"><h2>Contents</h2></div>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><a href="#Accomplishments"><span class="tocnumber">1</span> <span class="toctext">Accomplishments</span></a>
<ul>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><a href="#Parodius_Networking"><span class="tocnumber">1.1</span> <span class="toctext">Parodius Networking</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><a href="#Console_development_.2F_homebrew"><span class="tocnumber">1.2</span> <span class="toctext">Console development / homebrew</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><a href="#FreeBSD"><span class="tocnumber">1.3</span> <span class="toctext">FreeBSD</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><a href="#Other"><span class="tocnumber">1.4</span> <span class="toctext">Other</span></a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-6"><a href="#Ramblings"><span class="tocnumber">2</span> <span class="toctext">Ramblings</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-7"><a href="#Personal"><span class="tocnumber">3</span> <span class="toctext">Personal</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-8"><a href="#Links"><span class="tocnumber">4</span> <span class="toctext">Links</span></a></li>
<li class="toclevel-1 tocsection-9"><a href="#References"><span class="tocnumber">5</span> <span class="toctext">References</span></a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Accomplishments">Accomplishments</span></h2>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Parodius_Networking">Parodius Networking</span></h3>
<p>I ran <a class="external text" href="http://archiveteam.org/index.php?title=Parodius_Networking" rel="nofollow">Parodius Networking</a>, a free web/shell/mail/etc. hosting service, for about 18 years.  We closed our doors on August 2012.  We hosted numerous emulation, console, and romhacking websites, such as:
</p>
<ul><li> <a class="external text" href="http://nesdev.com/" rel="nofollow">nesdev</a> (NES/Famicom console development)</li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.nesworld.com/" rel="nofollow">NES World</a> (NES/Famicom fan site)</li>
<li> Donut/The Whirlpool (major romhacking hub) (R.I.P.)</li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://patpend.net/articles/ar/" rel="nofollow">Archaic Ruins</a> (emulation news site) (R.I.P.)</li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NESticle" rel="nofollow">NESticle</a> (NES/Famicom emulator) (R.I.P.)</li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_video_game_emulators#Sega_Genesis" rel="nofollow">Genecyst</a> (Genesis/Megadrive emulator) (R.I.P.)</li>
<li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.joyelectric.com/" rel="nofollow">Joy Electric</a> (analog synth-pop band)</li></ul>
<p>I've tried to take <a class="external text" href="https://www.dropbox.com/sh/5g5191yb11tfou1/AADjrrUx4wjJagPV2aDdaEcDa?dl=0" rel="nofollow">photos of our co-location cages</a> over the years.
</p>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Console_development_.2F_homebrew">Console development / homebrew</span></h3>
<ul><li> Author of public-domain <a class="external text" href="http://www.romhacking.net/documents/121/" rel="nofollow">SNES documentation</a> during the early-to-mid 90s.</li>
<li> Author of public-domain <a class="external text" href="http://www.romhacking.net/documents/120/" rel="nofollow">NES documentation</a>, a.k.a. nestech.txt, during the late 90s into the early 21st century.</li>
<li> Author of the <a class="external text" href="http://www.romhacking.net/translations/139/" rel="nofollow">replacement Final Fantasy 2 intro</a> for Neo Demiforce's English translation.
<ul><li> In March 2015, I decided to re-do the intro code, comment it, and make it public (in hopes of it being good learning material), along with a &quot;why/how&quot; write-up.  I've finished the revamped code, but not the write-up.  I'll release it when everything is polished.</li></ul></li>
<li> Author of TRaCER, a 6502/65816 disassembler for MS-DOS, written in Turbo Pascal.  And yes I'm aware of a bug in its 65816 opcode table.  :-(</li>
<li> Still actively doing NES/SNES romhacking projects of my own, including a bunch of work on Otogirisou.</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="FreeBSD">FreeBSD</span></h3>
<ul><li> <a class="external text" href="http://www.freebsd.org/" rel="nofollow">FreeBSD</a> community member from 1997 to 2008.
<ul><li> I still use FreeBSD but I do not participate in the community any longer.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-1"><a href="#cite_note-1">[1]</a></sup></li>
<li> I still report lots of bugs though.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-2"><a href="#cite_note-2">[2]</a></sup><sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-3"><a href="#cite_note-3">[3]</a></sup></li>
<li> I keep <a class="external text" href="http://jdc.koitsu.org/freebsd/" rel="nofollow">an archive</a> of random things I've dealt with or fixed on FreeBSD.</li></ul></li>
<li> Ex-FreeBSD ports committer.</li>
<li> Author of <a class="external text" href="https://github.com/koitsu/bsdhwmon" rel="nofollow">bsdhwmon</a>, an open source SMBus-focused hardware monitoring utility for FreeBSD.</li></ul>
<h3><span class="mw-headline" id="Other">Other</span></h3>
<ul><li> Was in an Apple IIGS demo group called Digital Exodus back in the early 90s.  We released some useful CDAs (ex. DOCVu) and an Xmas Demo in 1993.<sup class="reference" id="cite_ref-4"><a href="#cite_note-4">[4]</a></sup></li>
<li> Was in a console/&quot;hacking&quot; group called Damaged Cybernetics in the mid-90s.  I'm still not exactly sure why; it was very odd.  :-)</li>
<li> News poster for Zophar's Domain during the &quot;emulation peak&quot; of the late 90s.</li>
<li> Publicized <a class="external text" href="http://jdc.koitsu.org/logitech/" rel="nofollow">several flaws</a> with Logitech products, especially USB mice.</li>
<li> Working with storage subsystems, particularly ATA/SATA (including protocol and SMART), and doing reliable software-based data recovery.  You'll find me helping out occasionally over on the DSLReports/BBR forum.
<ul><li> I still actively do this today.</li></ul></li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Ramblings">Ramblings</span></h2>
<ul><li> <a href="User_Koitsu_Why_I_still_run_Windows_XP_in_2015.xhtml" title="User:Koitsu/Why I still run Windows XP in 2015">Why I still run Windows XP in 2015</a> — highly detailed.  If only Microsoft listened... :-(  -- Update: since roughly April 2015, I've grudgingly upgraded to Windows 7 Ultimate</li>
<li> Why I stopped doing nesdev for almost a decade (the <a class="external text" href="http://forums.nesdev.com/viewtopic.php?f=2&amp;t=644" rel="nofollow">related nesdev forum thread</a>).</li>
<li> A bit egocentric, but: I still wonder why nobody has ever gotten around to interviewing me about either Parodius Networking or my role in emulation and/or console development.
<ul><li> On the flip side, <a class="external text" href="https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1316851183/the-new-8-bit-heroes-new-nes-game-and-creation-doc" rel="nofollow">The New 8-Bit Heroes</a> folks did an in-person interview with me in March 2015 about my NES documentation and homebrew efforts.</li>
<li> In May 2015, MIT Press published Nathan Altice's book titled <i><a class="external text" href="http://mitpress.mit.edu/books/i-am-error" rel="nofollow">I AM ERROR</a></i>, in which my aforementioned efforts are cited as references.  I'll admit it's kinda weird seeing your name in published print.</li></ul></li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Personal">Personal</span></h2>
<ul><li> I was born January 1977.</li>
<li> I'm originally from Oregon but presently reside in California (Silicon Valley).</li>
<li> The first programming language I ever used was Logo on an original Apple II.  I enjoyed it, but really took to Applesoft BASIC shortly thereafter.  I started doing 6502 assembly/machine language in 7th grade (1988 or so?), and then 65816 once I got my own Apple IIGS.  I've done lots of other assembly over the years (ex. 6810, PIC16c84, x86/486), but enjoy the 65xxx series CPUs the most.</li>
<li> I studied Mandarin for 4 years (high school) and about 6 months outside of school.  I've also since learned to read/write Korean (maybe 1st or 2nd grade level, but hey, better than nothing).</li>
<li> For transporation, I ride a mountain bike; I don't drive (by choice).</li>
<li> ..and I don't vote (by choice); I have no political affiliations.</li>
<li> I like all kinds of music (you will find Iron Maiden next to Henson Cargill next to Lionel Ritchie next to De Lyckliga Kompisarna next to Carpenter Brut).</li>
<li> I'm an avid fan of the horror genre (movies, books, whatever); I absolutely adore H.P. Lovecraft.</li>
<li> Since 2001 I've had moderate-to-severe <a class="external text" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Irritable_bowel_syndrome" rel="nofollow">IBS</a> and experience some form of its effects on a daily basis.
<ul><li> I only mention this because IBS has significantly impacted my life (in a very negative way) and helps explain both some parts of my behaviour (maybe even personality?) and how I live my life the way I do.</li>
<li> Partially as a result of my condition, my weight has fluctuated wildly over several years (maximum being 195 pounds, lowest being 140 pounds; I'm 5 foot 9 inches).  I felt my best at around 165, but that was also when I was working out every other day.</li></ul></li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Links">Links</span></h2>
<ul><li> Home page: <a class="external free" href="http://jdc.koitsu.org/" rel="nofollow">http://jdc.koitsu.org/</a></li>
<li> Blog: <a class="external free" href="https://koitsu.wordpress.com/" rel="nofollow">https://koitsu.wordpress.com/</a></li>
<li> Twitter: <a class="external free" href="https://twitter.com/koitsu2009" rel="nofollow">https://twitter.com/koitsu2009</a></li>
<li> LinkedIn: <a class="external free" href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeremychadwick" rel="nofollow">https://www.linkedin.com/in/jeremychadwick</a></li>
<li> DSLReports/BBR profile: <a class="external free" href="http://www.dslreports.com/profile/659143" rel="nofollow">http://www.dslreports.com/profile/659143</a></li></ul>
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="References">References</span></h2>
<ol class="references">
<li id="cite_note-1"><span class="mw-cite-backlink"><a href="#cite_ref-1">↑</a></span> <span class="reference-text">Why I left the FreeBSD Project: <a class="external free" href="https://koitsu.wordpress.com/2008/12/13/why-i-left-the-freebsd-project/" rel="nofollow">https://koitsu.wordpress.com/2008/12/13/why-i-left-the-freebsd-project/</a></span>
</li>
<li id="cite_note-2"><span class="mw-cite-backlink"><a href="#cite_ref-2">↑</a></span> <span class="reference-text">FreeBSD PRs for jdc@koitsu.org: <a class="external free" href="https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?email1=jdc%40koitsu.org&amp;emailreporter1=1&amp;emailtype1=substring&amp;order=Importance&amp;query_format=advanced" rel="nofollow">https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?email1=jdc%40koitsu.org&amp;emailreporter1=1&amp;emailtype1=substring&amp;order=Importance&amp;query_format=advanced</a></span>
</li>
<li id="cite_note-3"><span class="mw-cite-backlink"><a href="#cite_ref-3">↑</a></span> <span class="reference-text">FreeBSD PRs for freebsd@jdc.parodius.com: <a class="external free" href="https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?email1=freebsd%40jdc.parodius.com&amp;emailreporter1=1&amp;emailtype1=substring&amp;order=Importance&amp;query_format=advanced" rel="nofollow">https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?email1=freebsd%40jdc.parodius.com&amp;emailreporter1=1&amp;emailtype1=substring&amp;order=Importance&amp;query_format=advanced</a></span>
</li>
<li id="cite_note-4"><span class="mw-cite-backlink"><a href="#cite_ref-4">↑</a></span> <span class="reference-text">Ninjaforce - Special - IIGS Demo Scene reviewed - Xmas Demo: <a class="external free" href="http://www.ninjaforce.com/html/special_demoscene_dexmas.html" rel="nofollow">http://www.ninjaforce.com/html/special_demoscene_dexmas.html</a></span>
</li>
</ol>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.102 seconds
Real time usage: 0.106 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 118/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 346/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 3/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:622-1!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20160812041114 and revision id 12788
 -->
</div></body></html>