<?xml version="1.0" ?><!DOCTYPE html  PUBLIC '-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN'  'http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd'><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head><title>User talk:Lidnariq</title>
<meta content="width=display-width" name="viewport"/>
<link href="w.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<script src="w.js" type="text/javascript"/>
</head><body><h1>User talk:Lidnariq</h1><div class="article">
<h2><span class="mw-headline" id="Leaving_anonymous_edits_open">Leaving anonymous edits open</span></h2>
<p>In <s>this revert</s>, you asked: &quot;Are we sure about leaving anonymous edits open?&quot;
</p><p>Look how quickly and easily it was reverted, and it didn't need an administrator's help. After you noticed vandalism, it took you three clicks to remove it: diff, undo, save. Then compare to how much work an administrator needed to do to get someone's account set up properly under the trusted/role account system. Also notice the lack of a working link to the vandal's web site because the editor couldn't solve the NES trivia question that the wiki presents to someone new who adds an external link. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> 22:09, 12 October 2012 (MDT)
</p>
<dl><dd>Thank you for your help in fighting vandalism. But I've noticed a peculiar sentiment in the edit summaries for your reverts. Without anonymous edits, how would you recommend contacting someone in case of problems creating an account on or logging in to the forum or wiki? --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 14:36, 19 February 2013 (MST)</dd></dl>
<dl><dd><dl><dd>What if anonymous edits were allowed on one special talk page in particular? Users who are not logged in could be redirected there or given a link to it automatically if they try to make an edit. The entire wiki-talk doesn't need to be an emergency messageboard. To me, reverting the vandalism is less of a problem I think than just how the vandalism+revert pollute the recent changes list. Revering the changes is the problem of one person who finds it, but everyone who reads the RC has to read/parse this stuff. (Putting it all on a single page wouldn't help RC much though, but might make it easier to parse/ignore.) - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 00:29, 20 February 2013 (MST)
<dl><dd><s>Administrators</s> and users with 500 or more edits can <s>mark RC entries as &quot;bot&quot;</s> so that they're <a class="extiw" href="http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Recent_Changes_Cleanup" title="mediawikiwiki:Extension:Recent Changes Cleanup">hidden from the default view of Recent Changes</a>. My practice here has been to hide spam, reverts, and other administrivia after two other users have made edits. The reason I left talk namespaces open is so that people could report problems with the content of pages. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 08:33, 20 February 2013 (MST)
<dl><dd>Ah, so in about 20 more edits, I'll be able to botify spam edits? Well, that'll be good. - <a href="User_Rainwarrior.xhtml" title="User:Rainwarrior">Rainwarrior</a> (<s>talk</s>) 13:22, 20 February 2013 (MST)</dd></dl></dd></dl></dd>
<dd>At least for me, people have been contacting me by PM on the forum in preference to anonymous edits in the wiki. However, I would stop complaining if a two-click-and-no-scrolling &quot;get rid of it from the page and the changelog&quot; option were available. But now the work flow is &quot;click on diff, click on undo, scroll to bottom, click submit, go to S:RCC, click to hide my undo (which reloads the page rather than using AJAX to just change the field!), click to hide their edit&quot;, and that's just obnoxious. —<a href="User_Lidnariq.xhtml" title="User:Lidnariq">Lidnariq</a> (<strong class="selflink">talk</strong>) 16:23, 21 February 2013 (MST)
<dl><dd>I'll see what I can do about making a rollback group. But you'll need to be careful with it, as bumping the rollback button on my own wiki has caused me to accidentally revert good edits. --<a href="User_Tepples.xhtml" title="User:Tepples">Tepples</a> (<a href="User_talk_Tepples.xhtml" title="User talk:Tepples">talk</a>) 17:41, 21 February 2013 (MST)</dd></dl></dd></dl></dd></dl>

<!-- 
NewPP limit report
CPU time usage: 0.037 seconds
Real time usage: 0.040 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 8/1000000
Post‐expand include size: 0/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 0/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 2/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/100
-->

<!-- Saved in parser cache with key nesdev_wiki-mw1_:pcache:idhash:914-1!*!0!*!*!*!* and timestamp 20160208230047 and revision id 5563
 -->
</div></body></html>